
Hibernate	  TIME 
Spring	  TIME 
Web Services	  TIME 
Core Java	 3. TIME 
Design Patterns	  TIME 
UML design	 3. TIME 
Build Tools (Maven/Ant)	 3. TIME 
Others if any specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools
etc.]
Apache Tomcat 6.0/ Web Sphere Application Server
 	 Apache,Tomcat=3. TIME 
Niranjan Syamala                                                        
Email:  	 EMAIL 	
Mobile:   (+91) MOBILE 	                                             
Objective:  To Perceive a challenging carrier though which I can excel
my organization and myself.
Professional Summary:
I have 3. TIME s of professional experience in Java Development
Currently working as Software Developer at Oracle India Pvt. Ltd
Successful hands on experience in project implementation in the TELECOM
domain and E-Commerce domain.
Sound knowledge in Core Java, IBM Rational Clear case, HTML, JSP, Java
Script and 
Spring, Hibernate and REST framework.
Worked as a Java Developer in Broadband OSS applications at TCS in
Planning, Coordinating and Implementing Applications across a range of
systems and environments using the Waterfall model and agile software
Methodologies.
Worked as lead player in project while using IBM Rational Clear-case
with JAVA.
Worked as a Configuration Manager and actively involved in Telecom TMF
814 Product delivery related activities. 
Educational Qualifications
Master of Technology in V.L.S.I (2009-2011) with an aggregate of 82% 
B.Tech (Electronics) (2004-2008) with an aggregate of 67%
Board of Intermediate Education (2002-2004) with an aggregate of 83.6%
Secondary School Of Education (2002) with an aggregate of 83.5%
Technical  Skils:
Core Java
Servlets and JSPs 
SQL
HTML
JavaScript
Software Tools:
IBM Rational Clear case Version Control
Perforce
Databases: 
Objectivity 10.2
SQL
Oracle
Operating Systems: 
Windows
HP – Itanium
SUSE - Linux
Technology:
Below is a list of important IDE, Tools and languages that I
have worked with.
IDE	              Tools	               Language
Eclipse, IntelliJ	IBM Rational Clearcase Version Control, Perforce
Java
Career Profile:
Dates	                Organization	Designation
March 2014 – till date	Oracle India Pvt Ltd	Software Developer
Jan 30th, 2012 – March 2014	                          TCS	Assistant
Systems Engineer
Project 2:
Product Name	Oracle Commerce Suite
Period			March 2014 to till date
Role			Software Developer
Tech/Tools		Java/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, MsSql
Description		Oracle Commerce enables selling experiences that drive
clicks and conversions for the world’s biggest and best brands. The
solution enables businesses selling online to deliver a consistent,
relevant, and personalized cross-channel buying experience for buyers.
The Oracle Commerce Solution includes the Oracle Commerce Platform and
Oracle Commerce Merchandising capabilities for creating and defining the
sites and content that drives customer experiences. These capabilities
include creating and managing multi-site and multichannel
infrastructures, management of the product catalog, web content
creation, collection of session data, pricing and promotions, processing
of transactions, management of customer profiles and segments, and the
creation of personalization strategies.  
Responsibility    1)	Writing the technical specification document as per
the requirements..
2)	Implementation of the designed solutions.
.      3)	Writing up the unit test cases.
4)	Bug Fixing and providing assistance to the customers.
5)	Being an agile team member actively participating in sprint
activities.
Project 1:
Product Name	TMF (Tele Management Forum)
Customer		Ericsson Telecom
Period			Jan, 2012  to March 2014
Role			Team Member
Tech/Tools		Core Java, Eclipse and IBM Rational Cleasecase Version
Control
Description		TMF it is a product based core software for telecom
operators.
TMF uses MTNM standards supported by CISCO, Huawei and many more Telecom
Giants.	All the Telecom groups should fallow these MTNM standards to
implement 		their own product 
Development		
TMF is operated as the North bound interface while managing the Network
elements like EMS and NMS. TMF is used as the operator standing on top
of the network through which we can send the various data signals from
one EMS to other EMS which is managed by one single NMS. TMF is having
various development sub applications. The main Work we put in is WSON
Management this management deals with how a network will route the data
depending on the data rates for a particular end user.
For Example 
Customer A wants 5 MBPS speed on Weekdays and 10 MBPS on Weekends.
Customer B wants 10 MBPS speed on Weekdays and 5 MBPS on Weekends.
Then we should be in a position to provide them such facilities of data
rates with their requirement. We have developed our application in TMF
such away which should provide the flexibility of choosing the data
rates and data plans. This leads to optimizing the Bandwidth of the
optical cables used in communication.
Responsibility    1)	Requirement Analysis, Development, Regression
testing.
.     2)	Working with each team member in case of technical or
functional issues in each 			phase of task execution. Frequent
Interaction with the on-site team for requirement 			understanding
Achievement Summary: 
1.	I was awarded with “Star of the Month” TCS (2013) because of the
commitment showed.
2.	Due to my ability to handle multiple works I have been requested to
support IBM Rational Clear case version control critical issues of
another project in Ericsson account.
Personal Details: 
Date of Birth	15/04/1987	
Nationality	Indian
Sex	Male
Marital status	Married
Current Address and phone no	Flat No. 304, Lakshmi Priya Colony,
Manikonda
Date of joining	Jan 2012
Designation	Software Developer
I hereby declare that all the information mentioned above is true
to the best of my knowledge
(Niranjan Syamala)
Page   PAGE  1  of   NUMPAGES \*Arabic  4 

My current CTC is 17 LPA.  and I am expecting 25 LPA. 
My notice period is 1 month.
Tarun Agrawal
#1308 AGATE My Home Jewel, Madinaguda, Hyderabad 500549
Contact:  MOBILE ; E-Mail:  EMAIL ; DOB: 11th
August, 1984
PRINCIPAL SOFTWARE ENGINEER 
PROFILE
Competent and result oriented professional offering 7. TIME s of
sterling experience in product development currently serving as
Principal Software Engineer with PegaSystems Worldwide Pvt Ltd, India.
Certified Scrum Master and currently playing role of the same in the
team.
Excellent exposure in designing and implementing multi-threading
solutions.
Excellent exposure in designing and implementing security features such
as URL tempering, CSRF, Cross Site Scripting etc. 
Excellent exposure in multi tenancy development and analysis.  
Excellent Exposure in designing and implementing caches for efficient
processing.
Excellent Exposure on performance analysis and finding bottlenecks.  
Exposure on distributed technology such as Hazelcast, EHCache etc.
Received Employee Achievement Award for outstanding contribution for
PRPC product.
Received Pega Innovation Award for contributing toward new product ideas
and build POC for the same.
Received coveted R.I.S.E (Reorganization of Individual Superior Effort)
award for tremendous effort and contribution in WDA (Wholesale Demand
Accounting) project.
Received Best Performance award for extraordinary performance in
Technical Training Program. 
Received SPOT award for dedication and contribution for Payments
Director Monitoring Tool.
Sun certified Java programmer with 95%.
A team player with excellent interpersonal and communication skills
with an ability to work under high pressure deadlines.
TECHNICAL SKILLS
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Pegasystems Worldwide Pvt Ltd                                           
since Sept ‘2011
Pegasystems offers PRPC platform and I have worked various areas of PRPC
it includes Security, Performance and Multi tenancy. Following are some
highlights.  
Worked with on improving performance analysis of existing product
feature and removing bottlenecks. 
Designed and implemented URL tempering security feature by providing
white listing of parameters. 
Designed and implemented CSRF mitigation. 
Designed and implemented PRPC multi-threading processing. 
Re-design existing product engine caches to support multi-tenancy. 
Designed and implemented cluster wide locking utility using Hazelcast. 
HSBC Technology Services                                                
since June ‘2007
Senior Software Engineer
Project Exposures
IBM Payments Directors: The IBM Payments Director (IPD) suite
facilitates the real-time, transaction-based processing of payments with
all the services to support the presentment and settlement cycle. This
is underpinned by a robust business rules engine that enables a rapid
response to any business continuity threat to the settlement process and
supports real-time integration with fraud applications. 
HSBC North America has customized IPD for its requirements and deployed
it to demise existing Check Processing Control System.
Project Title	IPD(IBM Payments Director)
Client	HSBC BANK, North America
Technology	Java, Linux, Mainframe, XML
Role		Customization and enhancement.
Team Size	11 
Responsibility	Customization of the product to meet HSBC specific
needs.
Unit testing.
Design and developed monitoring tool for effective monitoring of the
system.
Design and developed interfaces to communicate with other check
processing and fraud systems.
Project Title	Remote Desktop Capture (RDC)
Client	HSBC BANK, North America	
Technology	Java, Dot Net, Windows Server
Role	Requirement gathering and analysis, Development, Testing and
Quality Management.
Team Size	4
Description	Remote Desktop Capture (RDC) product allows retail and
corporate customers to send check images and supporting data
electronically to HSBC Bank. 
Responsibility	Design
Coding.
Unit Testing 
Preparing environment for unit-testing. 
Preparing Test plan 
Run the IST files and verify the results
Project Title	Deposit Servicing System (DSV)
Client	HSBC BANK, North America.
Technology	Java, Mainframe, MQ series.
Role	Requirement gathering and analysis, Development, Testing and
Quality Management.
Team Size	3
Description	The Deposits Servicing System (DSV) supports the creation
and maintenance of HSBC Global Payments and Cash Management’s
wholesale demand deposit account portfolio on the Wholesale Demand
Deposit System (WDA).  As such, DSV provides Commercial customer setup,
Account opening, maintenance and servicing, Globalization (e.g.,
grouping of accounts for pricing, interest, limits and reserves),
Transfer relationships (e.g., sweep & concentration), Notional Netting
relationships, Back value transaction entry and 
General inquiry.
Responsibility	Requirement gathering. Developed requirement
understanding document and prototype to capture all functional
requirements.
Developed UML diagrams to capture application’s high and low level
design.
Code development.
Developed cache service to maintain less frequently data at server and
also developed a scheduler program which invokes scheduled cache
services at configured time.
Complete end to testing with Mainframe programs. 
Software Configuration Management.
Project Title	Client Servicing System (CSV)
Client	HSBC BANK, North America.
Technology	Java, Mainframe, MQ.
Role	Requirement gathering and analysis, Development, Testing and
Quality Management.
Team Size	3
Description	The Client Servicing System (CSV), web based application, is
a front end agent to the Deposits Servicing System (DSV) which is used
by HSBC Global Payments and Cash Management to create and maintain WDA
accounts on the Wholesale Demand Deposit System (WDA). As such, CSV
provides the necessary work flow management, input forms and approval
methods automating the set up of new customers and accounts onto WDA.
Responsibility	Requirement gathering. Developed prototype to capture all
functional requirement.
Developed UML diagrams to capture application’s high and low level
design.
Code development.
Developed custom tag library to reduce redundancy and improve
productivity.
Complete end to testing with Mainframe program. 
Software Configuration Management.
Project Title	Management Information Reporting System (MIR)
Client	HSBC BANK, North America.
Technology	Java
Role	Requirement Development, Testing and Quality Management.
Team Size	3
Description	Management Information Reporting System is integrated WDA
product to generate
reports for business and customers.
Responsibility	Code development.
Preparing Test plan 
Reviewing peer codes and UTP’s
EDUCATIONAL AND PROFESSIONAL CREDENTIALS
Bachelor of Engineering
(Computer Science) 2007 with 72%
Devi Ahilya
Vishvidhalaya, Indore
XIIth – 2002 with 84%
Govt Boys. H.S.S., MP Board
Xth – 2000 with 68%
Sharda Vidya Niketan, MP Board

s.v. surya Narayana Reddy
E-Mail ID:  EMAIL 
Phone:  MOBILE 
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY
With more than  TIME s of IT experience in design, development and testing of Web based applications using object-oriented methodologies and application servers such as IBM Web Sphere. 
Good Experience in Agriculture and Automobile Domain using Java, J2EE and J2EE design patterns like MVC, Factory, Abstract Factory, Builder, Prototype and Proxy.
Expertise on Core Java, JSP/Servlet, Hibernate and Spring Frameworks, JavaScript, XML, DB2, MYSQL SERVER 5.0 Databases.
Good exposure on MVC patterns in web architecture.
Strong exposure of complete project development life cycle developing expertise including designing/modeling, programming/coding of server side components.
Strong skills include J2EE Specification, J2EE Design Patterns, Hibernate, XML and JUnit Framework.  
Experience with Web Sphere, Tomcat, Eclipse, RAD7.5, Net Beans, and Rational Rose, and backend MSSQL Server, DB2 database accessing using JDBC.
Hands on experience with database design, entity relationship, and database analysis/programming. Experienced in writing SQL Queries, Stored Procedures etc. in DB2 and Oracle.
Hands on experience on Mercurial and Star-team.
Having the experience in unit testing and component testing.
Have the experience in bug fixing.
Ability to work independently with minimum supervision in a team environment.
Working in Agile for more than  TIME .
Hands on experience in ATDD using cucumber.
QUALIFICATIONS
Earned Bachelor of Technology, from Pragati Engineering College in year 2010.
Earned Post Graduate Diploma from CDAC ACTS, Pune in year 2011.
Ability to solve analytical problems, and ease to learn new concepts.
EXPERIENCE
Working as Software Engineer for John Deere India private ltd, Pune from February 2011 to Till Date.
TECHNICAL SKILLS
Programming Languages:
Java, J2EE
GUI:
HTML, JSP 
RDBMS:
MYSQL, DB2
Operating Systems:  
Windows XP,98,2000, Windows 7
ORM Technologies
Hibernate 3.0, JPA
Web/Application Servers
Apache Tomcat 6.0, Web Sphere 6.1, Web Sphere 7.0 , JBOSS
Framework:
Struts 1.2, Web Service , REST Web Service , Spring 3.0
IDE’s
Eclipse 3.0, RAD 7.5
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE SUMMARY
John Deere private ltd, Pune	February 2011 ~ Till Date
Project: JDLink ( February -2011- Till date)
Description: The JDLink™ equipment management solution is a telematic system designed to remotely connect owners and managers to their equipment, providing alerts and machine information including location, utilization, performance, and maintenance data to manage where and how equipment is being used.
Responsibilities:
Analysis, Estimation and design of Enhancement.
Understanding business and involve in process map analysis with Team.
Involved in writing the technical documentation by understanding the process
Preparing systematic Plan to investigate problem. 
Requirement Gathering.
Coding, Testing and Deployment.
Responsible for the implementation and unit testing.
Responsible for integration of modules and bug fixing.
Implement ATDD using cucumber.
Environment: Deere Framework, RAD 7.5, Web Sphere 7.0, DB2, JAVA, JSP, Servlet, Spring AOP & IOC, Hibernate, JUnit, JMS.
PERSONNEL DETAILS  
Fathers Name:		Subba Reddy
Date of Birth:		22-04-1989
Place of birth:		kutukuluru
Languages Known:	English, Hindi & Telugu
Confidential	Page 2 of 2	
Confidential	Page 1 of 2
 Ankit Agrawal				                     	Contact: (+91) MOBILE 
EMAIL 
HYPERLINK "mailto: EMAIL " \h   
Objective
To secure a position in the Software Technology Industry to improve my
skills and abilities that offers professional growth while being
resourceful, innovative and flexible.
Technical Skills
Languages                  	: Java, C
Framework		: Hibernate
IDE		        	: Eclipse
Appliaction Server	: JBoss AS, Tomcat
Projects Undertaken
1)	Organization 	: Newgen
Domain 	: Enterprise Content Management  
Project Name	: Newgen Enterprise Mobility Framework
Description	: Framework to develop Server-Client Application for Mobile
Devices
Skills		: Java, Hibernate Framework, JUnit framework, ANT, XML, JSON
2)	Organization 	: Newgen
Domain 	: Enterprise Content Management  
Project Name	: ZapIn
Description	: Configurable Form-based Application for capturing Real
World Data
SDK		: Android
2)	Organization 	: Newgen
Domain 	: Research & Development
Description	: Learn and Train Organization for Tools and Technology.
Tools		: Sonar, JUnit
3)	Institution	: IIIT, Hyderabad
Project Name	: Machine Translation
Description	: Preparing rules for Word Sense Disambiguation and
Generating Hindi glosses     for Word Net             
Language	:  C, CLIPS, XML
Qualification
Bachelor of Technology (2009-2013)
College 	: Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology, Allahabad
Branch		: Information Technology
CPI	             : 8.2
All India Senior School Certificate Examination (2008)
School		: Saraswati Sen. Sec. Vidya Mandir, Deoria, UP
Percentage	: 75.4%
All India Secondary School Examination (2006)
School               : Nav Jeevan Mission School, Kasia, UP
Percentage	: 86%
Achievements
Rewarded Excellence Award at Organization Level in Newgen for Quarter
(Oct-Dec’ 2014)  
Event Co-ordinator of Softathlon (Coding Contest) in Avishkar’12 –
Technical Festival MNNIT Allahabad.
Hobbies 
Watching Movies
Playing Games
Strength
Adaptive, Quick-learner.
Determined, focused person.
Teamwork, Self-motivated.
Personal Details
Father’s Name    : Mr. Rajesh Agrawal
Mother’s Name   : Mrs. Renu Agrawal
Date of Birth       : 05/07/1991
Address               : Sant Vinoba Road, New colony, Deoria, UP-274001
Contact No.         : MOBILE 
The information provided above is correct to the best of my knowledge
and belief.
Place – Noida
Date – 21st April 2014								(Ankit)

Sulabh Bajaj
E-mail:  EMAIL 
Contact No-  MOBILE 
SYNOPSIS
3+ yearsof experience in IT Industry. 
Presently associated with Edifecs, as a Software Engineer.
Hands on experience in implementation of multiple Cloud solutions.
ITIL Service Management (ServiceNow) process workflow automation and orchestration.
Technical Skills
Languages
C, C++, java
Databases
MySQL, PostgresQl,SQL server
Framework
Spring
Build Management   
Ant,maven
Web Development   
JSP, HTML5, Java script, JQuery/AJAX, Ext JS
Cloud solutions
AWS, 
service management(ServiceNow)
IDE
Eclipse
ORM
Hibernate
CORE COMPETENCIES
Comprehensive knowledge of software products and its operating systems 
Knowledge of business process and management with strong customer service skills 
Attention to detail with sound oral and written communication skills 
Possess sound decision making skills and has the ability to take initiatives 
Excellent team player with good negotiation and leadership skills 
Target oriented and has the ability to handle multiple tasks.
Ability to adapt to 24*7 work environment.
Roles and Responsibilities:-
Java Code development, Web development and testing  in various modules of Health Information Exchange and Cloud Eco System Hub 
Deliver technical sessions to various managers and colleagues.
Writing code specific to Amazon Integration with Eco System Hub.
Worked on the TMobile, Rwest, AMP specific implementation of Eco System Hub. 
Handling documentation of the Cloud Eco system Hub. 
Continuously improve troubleshooting skills, product expertise, and knowledge on related technical topics. 
Meet all quality and productivity performance goal.
Projects undertaken
Health Information Exchange:
Seamless sharing of clinical data to improve care and gain valuable insight  across partner ecosystem
Through a solution that provides you with actionable intelligence for early intervention on key clinical and financial risk markers. Edifecs Collaboration Solution leverages your existing trading infrastructure, then observes, validates and links your incoming clinical and administrative data in near real-time. What gets created? Comprehensive, concurrent, transparent, customer-centric records with a single context of care.
Providing one single interface to view and operate entire clinical data: different Edi files like hl7, ccd, x12 file are mapped to a database from where data is fetched and displayed onto the User interface.
Implementing real time graphs: generating real time information of an individual including the lab reports and basic vitals.
Implementing Restful web service:service manager which is in house wrapper on tomcat enables restful service calls.
The project requires to the core knowledge of spring core, SQL, Maven, Ext JS MVC, Java Script, AJAX/JQuery, hibernate,Junit.
Duration – 9 months.
Team Size – 10
Ecosystem Hub Solution :
Infosys Cloud Ecosystem Hub enables your enterprise to build, manage and govern a unified hybrid cloud environment.
It helps you rapidly create, adopt and govern cloud services across your ecosystem. As a result, you can accelerate time-to-market of cloud services by up to 40%, improve productivity by up to 20% and achieve cost savings of up to 30%
Provision IT infrastructure and platforms in a matter of minutes
Easily subscribe to enterprise cloud services through a unified self-service catalogue.
Integration of Ecosystem Hub with AWS : Amazon Web Services (abbreviated AWS) is a collection of remote computing services (also called web services) that together make up a cloud computing platform, offered over the Internet by Amazon.com. The most central and well-known of these services are Amazon EC2 and Amazon S3. The service is advertised as providing a large computing capacity (potentially many servers) much faster and cheaper than building a physical server farm.
Implementing and automating ITIL service Management (serviceNow):ServiceNow is the enterprise IT cloud company to transform IT by automating and managing IT service relationships across the global enterprise.Deploying services offered by ServiceNow to create a single system of record for IT and automate manual tasks, standardize processes, and consolidate legacy systems. It includes raising tickets (Incident Management), Service Request Management, Change Request Management, Problem management.
Implementing Restful web service: Representational State Transfer (REST) is an architectural style consisting of a coordinated set of constraints applied to components, connectors, and data elements, within a distributed hypermedia system to achieve desired architectural properties. REST ignores the details of component implementation and protocol syntax in order to focus on the roles of components, the constraints upon their interaction with other components, and their interpretation of significant data elements. Transforming services provided by Eco System hub to be used by the Client. AMP offers Two Kind of Application some of which are in BMC remedy another ITSM and some In ServiceNow the REST service helps Synchronisation of both.
The project requires to the core knowledge of Amazon API, Springs MVC 3.0, SQL, Ant, JSP, Java Script, AJAX/JQuery, XML,ITSM(Service Now),JBPM.
Duration –  TIME  9 month.
Team Size – 7
Automated Testing for business Tier and Persistence Tier of JavaEE application
Undertaken automated testing project during internship program at Infosys.
It provides the faculty of Infosys Limited to test Business Tier and Persistence Tier module of a trainee automatically.
It is accustomed to test up to 5 projects submitted by trainees simultaneously
Java, JPA, JSF, JUNIT tool  were the building blocks of the project
Duration – 5 months.
Team Size – 5
Text Editor
Undertaken Text editor project during graduation period.
Text editor used java concepts and is much like notepad.
It is accustomed to write and manipulate text.
Duration –1.5 months.
Team Size – 2
Professional Qualification: - 
Qualifications
College / University
Year
%
B.Tech (Computer Science)
Punjab University
2012
74.38
XII
Bal niketan senior secondary school
(CBSE)
2008
73.4(PCM 81)
X
Chaman vatika residential school (CBSE)
2006
81
Certifications & training
Successfully completed internship at Infosys Limited with a CGPA of 4.6 out of 5.
Completed training in CLOUD Services (Cloud Ecosystem Hub) from Infosys Limited.
Successfully completed 6 weeks training at Oops Info Solutions, Sector34,Chandigarh in Java Core(25th May 2009- 1st July 2009)
Microsoft Certified in HTML5, javascript and CSS(2013).
Achievements and Co-Curricular
Stood First in street play at Punjab Engineering College Fest.
Stood First in street play at National Institute of Technology.
Stood First in street play at Jalsa Youth festival.
Stood First in Ad mad at Jalsa Youth festival.
Stood Second in Street play at Indian Institute of Technology
Active member of the Dramatics club of college
Active Member of Dance and Music club of college
Member of Core committee of college annual function
Member of core committee college fest APRATIM-2011
Secured 93 percentile in E-Litmus.
Skills
Sincere, workaholic, quick learner, decision making capabilities, leadership qualities, willing to take initiative and adaptive according to the environment or needs.
Personal Information
Father’s Name: Mr.  Ashok Bajaj
Mother’s Name: Mrs. Monika Bajaj
Date of Birth: Oct 30, 1990
Nationality: Indian
Address: #330, sector-8, Ambala City
Languages Known: English, Hindi and Punjabi
Reference:
DATED: ------------		                                                     (Sulabh Bajaj)
Pramod Bhargava
Phone:  MOBILE                                                
Ramki Towers, Gachibowli Email: EMAIL                      
Hyderabad (A.P.), 500032
SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS
Currently associated with Insideview India as a Software Engineer on
J2EE Technologies.
3. TIME s’ experience of developing software throughout lifecycle,
from identifying requirements to QA/QC in product based companies. 
Good technical skills in Java/J2EE development. SCJP Qualified. 
Strong database concept, Good analytical, time management and
problem-solving skills.
I am motivated and enthusiastic by new challenges and tasks and take
innovative approach to achieve success in projects
OBJECTIVE: 
To work in a progressive environment where I may engage my skills to its
potential and gain the deepest insight into the process, thereby perform
to the best. Also, to be a significant figure of performance for the
team and the organization I am part of.
TECHNICAL EXPERTISE
Languages: Java/J2EE, C/C++
Frameworks: Struts 2, Hibernate and Spring. 
DBMS/RDBMS:  Oracle 10g, MS Access, My SQL, SQL-server
Scripting Language: JavaScript, AJAX, JQuery, HTML, XML, XHTML, WML
Web Servers: Apache Tomcat, JBOSS, Jetty
Software/Tools: Eclipse, Net beans, Maven, Ant, Liqubase, AWS, Jenkins
Certification: Sun Certified Java Programmer (SCJP).
Others: Web Services, ActiveMQ, Scrum Based Development, Elastic search,
Lucean, Data Structure, Data modeling.
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
InsideView India
A pioneer in CRM Intelligence, InsideView provides a suite of software
solutions for sales and marketing leaders that delivers critical
intelligence directly into CRM
SE                                                                      
April 2013-PRESENT
Project Undertaken
Marketing Product: InsideView Lead EnrichTM lets you reduce the number
of required web form fields—therefore improving conversion rates. New
leads, from any source, are automatically enriched with data from the
InsideView CRM Intelligence Platform as they are added to the database.
Enriched leads can be scored and routed faster so your sales team can
respond quickly. 
Role: Creating new features in product from scratch. Enhancing existing
functionality of product and integrating product with CRM’s
Technology Used: Complete MVC Architecture with  Spring 3.1, Hibernate
3.0 as ORM Tool, JSTL/JSP for view , ActiveMQ for message queues ,
Velocity for sending mails , RESTful services for integrating with
different CRM’s, Liqubase, MySQL as database, MAVEN for Deploys ,Jetty
8.0,Junit,TESTNG,Elastic search for Querying large data
Team size: 4
Data Diagnostics Product: It’s in Development phase.
Main focus of this Product is to identify data health and provide a
better solution 
Role: Developing all features from scratch 
Team size: 3
Technology Used: Complete MVC Architecture with  Spring 3.1, Hibernate
3.0 as ORM Tool, JSTL/JSP for view , ActiveMQ for message queues ,
Velocity for sending mails , RESTful services for integrating with
different CRM’s, Liqubase, MySQL as database, MAVEN for Deploys ,Jetty
8.0,Junit,TESTNG
Impetus InfoTech India Pvt Ltd
ASE/SE                                                                  
July 2011-APRIL 2013
Impetus offers a complete suite of Software Product Development and
Technology R&D services.
Project Undertaken
BCBSNE/BCBST: These are clients of Connecture where we need to Upgrade
Whole application from older versions to newer versions .Moreover we
need to add new features according to client needs 
Role:-Working in teams of 4 to 8 and changing product on basis of
client’s requirements .In this I am working on upgrading product
features and changing existing features according to client need.
I have handled a complete module of Medicare and worked on other modules
as well
Technology Used:-Struts 2.1, Hibernate 3.0, Spring, Jasper, jquery,
javascript 
Other Projects
Connecture Product development, Exemplar update, Game Wrapper
Application, Content Management System, Video on demand, Data mining
tools for CMS
Certification/Other Achievements
SCJP/OCJP certification 
Winner of Hackathon 2014 in reinvention Category at insideview.
Star of the months 4 times in row at impetus India.
Our project “www.twistcontent.com” for Twist Mobiles was selected
among Top 12 projects for e-summit at IIT – Powai.
EDUCATION:
MCA (Masters of Computer Applications)                                  
2008 - 2011
IIPS, DAVV Indore, M.P. 
CGPA 9.53 Pointer out of 10 (10 is the highest)
BCA (Bachelors Of Computer Applications)                                
2005 - 2008
IIPS, DAVV Indore, M.P.
CGPA 9.22 Pointer out of 10 (10 is the highest)
XII (PCM)                                                               
2004 - 2005
AECS, CBSE Board Indore, M.P. 
Percentage: 71.2%
X                                                                       
2004 - 2005
AECS, CBSE Board Indore, M.P. 
Percentage: 72.4%
Declaration
I hereby declare that all the information provided by me in this is
factual and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.
Date: 07/12/2014                                                        
Place: Hyderabad
