Krishnakumari Parvatha                                                                                                Mobile : +91 9553431188

Software Engineer                                                                                                 Mail id : ki2orkittu@gmail.com



From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience) the following technologies?  



Hibernate                                              -  2 months

Spring                                                     - 3 year & current                                                

Web Services                                      -  1 years  &current(REsT)                                              

Core Java                                               -  3year

Design Patterns                                    -    singleton

UML design                                           -    

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)                    -    Maven

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools etc.]

Tomcat,eclipsejboss




Ok for bitchemy





Krishnakumari Software Professional

 

			Having 3 years of experience in Software Analysis design and Development

			Strong Object Oriented design skills

			Experience working with Java/J2EE

	Experience working with frameworks like Wicket, Spring, Angular JS, Require JS, HandleBar JS .

	Having experience in using the IDE Tools like Eclipse

			Experience working with Maven Project Management Tool.

			Developed SOAP, REST services and event handlers 

			Having Good Communication skills, Creative thinking, Quick Learner and a Results Oriented approach

			Having experience working on Agile development model.







Application Development and Design

JAVA / J2EE

Spring

Hibernate

Oracle Sql

Web Services

Javasrcipt

Jquery

Wicket

Angular Js

Maven

Jaxb

Agile



Education Details

Gokaraju Rangaraju Institute of Engineering and Technology- B. Tech (CSE), 2011, 67 %

Smt. Durgabai Deshmukh Govt.(W)Technical Training, Institute- Diploma(CSE), 2007, 68.04%    

 Mani Jeremiah High School-SSC, 2004, 72.16%



Technical Skills



Area

Skills

Special Skills

Client interaction, Requirement Study and Design.

Operating Systems	

Windows7/XP/Vista

Programming Languages

Java

Software/IDE

Eclipse ¸Edit Plus, Note Pad++ 

Databases

Oracle 

Project Management Tool

Maven

Version control tool

SVN. 

Project development model and tools

Agile methodology and version one

Web Technologies

Wicket , HTML, Angular Js

Technologies worked

Spring(exp on Spring IOC, Spring jdbc), SOAP Services,

REST Services, XSLT, Jaxb (xml bindings), IndexedDB, Angular JS.

Testing

Junit, Testng, mocikto, dbunit  





Employment History 

Name of the Company

Designation

Duration 



Prokarma Softech Pvt Ltd



Software Engineer

	August  2011 to till date





Project Title	

ITOS

Client

Union Pacific Railway Roads (UPRR),USA.

Duration

December 2011 to till date

Location

Hyderabad, India

Role

Team Member

Tools

Apache Wicket, HTML, Java Script, Angular JS, Spring, XML Data binding technologies (JAXB), Core Java, JMS, SOAP Services, Junit, Maven 2,  Eclipse



Description:  It is Independent project. OASIS is the legacy system of client which is going to be replaced by ITOS. ITOS represents domain functionality, it consists of several feature groups that would be implemented in Web ,Mobile, Handheld. 

The main functionalities that are completed and I worked on are

Ingate:   Developed UI pages and service that  process the request and allows the Equipment to enter into Terminal.

Parking:  Part of UI which helps the user to design and manage the parking space in the Terminal .

Load Planning: Developed End to End functionality of  Empty Equipment .

Workorders: Given me ownership of end to end  development   of Flip functionality. 

Outgate: Developed the screens where user can get code to outgate the Equipment.

Admin Screen: Developed  Five End to End core functionalities

Event processor:  These are the event processors to make TCS and ITOS in synchronize. 



Services:  I have been part of this SOAP service to process the requests.







Roles & Responsibilities:

		Understanding and analyzing the requirements  for developing.

		Reaching the goals in short span.

		Given KT on framework and functionalities for newbie in Project.

		Known for Client interaction and Testing peers development

		Active participate in functionality discussion and bug fixing.

		Quick learner and Self-motivated  while developing in new technology.







Personal Details

Date of Birth

03 September 1989

Sex

Female

Nationality

Indian

Marital Status

UnMarried

Languages Known

English, Hindi, Telugu

         





                                                                                                        (Krishnakumari)