GOLAGANI DASAVTAR YADAV

E-mail:    HYPERLINK "mailto:dasavtar@gmail.com"  dasavtar@gmail.com 
Mobile No: +919908747195

			 

                    	

SYNOPSIS 

Possess 6+ years of experience for providing Application Development &
Maintenance. I am proficient in
CoreJava,JDBC,SERVLETS,JSP,JSTL,STRUTS,SPRING,HIBERNATE,WEBSERVICES,AJAX
,Eclipse, MyEclipse ,NetBeans, Oracle 10g and 11g.

Proficient in Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and Agile worked in
various phases like Requirements Gathering, Analysis, Design,
Development and Testing and Maintenance and Production Support.

Handling Change Requests and Production Related Issue and Performing
enhancements in Applications.

Self-motivated and quick learner of new concepts and technologies and
has the capability to 

Meet deadlines in fast-paced environments.

Extensive knowledge on XML and XSLT

Good Knowledge on Java Script, HTML, CSS 

Have Good exposure on Design Patterns 

Have good exposure on good design principles.

Well-versed with Agile methodology.

Possesses strong analytical skills and always delivered Excellent Team
Spirit and Leadership Quality 

During the work.

Strong problem solving skills and an energetic self-starter with
presentation, communication and

Organizational skills. Technical expertise and comprehensive problem
solving abilities.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 

Working as a Software Engineer in IBM India Pvt. Ltd. since 4th July
2011 to till date.

Worked as a Software Engineer in Birla Soft Pvt. Ltd. since June 2008 to
August 2011.

Worked as a Software Engineer in Wipro Technologies since June 2007 to
August 2008.

EDUCATION 

Mtech from Andhra University in 2013.

Btech from JNTU, Hyderabad University in 2007.	

Maintained 70 %  throughout my academics

TECHNICAL SKILL SET 

Languages	     	 : J2SE, J2EE.

Frameworks	        	 : Struts 1.3.8, Spring 3.0, JSF 1.1.

Server Side Technologies	 : Servlet, JSP, JSTL, Ajax and Web Services.

Client Side Technology	 : HTML,HTML5, Java Script, XML;

Application/Web Servers     : Apache Tomcat 5.5.9, JBoss 5.5 and Web
Logic Server 11g.

ORM Tools              	 : Hibernate.

IDE		         	 : Eclipse, My Eclipse 6.0 and Net Beans 7.0.

Databases	        		 : Oracle10g, MYSQL.

Operating Systems     	 : Windows 98/XP, Linux.

       Version Control		 : TFS, SVN and WinCvs

Quality Tool	      :Test Director 8.0, Quality Center, Microsoft Visual
Studio.

Configuration Tools	      : Visual Source Safe, MKS,JPROB,CVS and
Jenkins.

ORGANIZATIONS WORKED 

1.Organization

Currently Working with IBM Company as “Software Engineer” from
July4th 2011 to till date. IBM is product based and service oriented
company having IT services worldwide in HCM and different Products.

2.Organization

Worked with BIRLASOFT Limited [www.birlasoft.com]  (SEI CMMi and Six
Sigma Practices) since Feb 18th  2008 to June27th 2010 date as “
Software Engineer”. Birlasoft is the global technology services
division of the CK Birla Group, one of India's premier commercial and
industrial houses, with Strategic Equity participation by GE Capital.
Birlasoft offers IT services worldwide from development centers in the
US, India, and Australia. Birlasoft has 4,000+ technical employees and a
large number of clients among Fortune 1000 companies.

CERTIFICATIONS 

Sun Certified Java Programmer (SCJP)     

PROJECTS HANDLED 

Project#1      	              Title                        : 2X Onboard.

 	Technologies        : JSF,Spring,Hibernate,JSP, Struts and Oracle.

Server 		   : JBoss,Tomcat.

                  Duration   	   : July-2011 to Till Date

                                               Team Size	   : 30
members.

Description:

2X Onboard is an onboarding product which is developed using latest
technologies. Employees who have been hired by a company will be
onboarded using this product where in employee needs to submit various
forms and those forms will be validated by a third party vendor and also
he will being going through various workflows and processes within the
company to get onboarded into the company.

Creation of Job Activities (Steps to taken under recruiting Process).

Creation Of workflow.

Creation of jobs.

Creation of Applicants.

Applying the applicants to Job.

Tracking the applicant’s job status, etc.

Role & Responsibility:

Planning the Work requests related to my modules along with my team.

Getting requirements from client, validating its business use, check the
technical feasibility.

Creating Technical specs for the requirement, and check the leaks in
prior hand.

End to end code development, following Agile and playing role of scrum
master.

Maintaining servers, and responsible for release builds throughout the
development life cycle. 

Responsible for maintaining the Code base using tool Team Foundation
Server(TFS).

Implementing new functionalities requested by the client based on the
criticality of the request, which sometimes include developing a new
tool and integrating it with the existing system.

Fixing client issues and other bugs found in the application.

Upgrading the third party resources used in the product as per the
release of those third party tools.

Conducting Retrospective after every release, and catching up the
hanging pieces from previous release to overcome them in the coming
release.

Project#1      	              Title                        : GE –
Workstation(GE Money, USA).

 	Technologies        : Servlet, JSP,JSF, Struts, Spring JSTL,
Hibernate, Oracle.

Server 		   : JBoss,Tomcat.

                  Duration   	   : July-2011 to Till Date

                                               Team Size	   : 30
members.

Description:           

GE - Workstation is a Call Center Application. This application provides
service for credit card holders of Clients such as Wal-Mart, JC Penney
etc. who have been financed by GE. It supports the credit cards issued
by the giant shopping malls (around 1250 clients) in US, Canada and
Mexico. In addition, certain non-GE financed credit cards are also
serviced through the GE call centers. 

This project is broadly classified into customer collection and customer
service. Customer collection deals with the collection of money from the
customer. Customer service deals all the activities that are handled at
the workstation (call center) to serve the customer requests. Customer
related data is on mainframes and client information and the business
rules are on oracle databases. Apollo workstation application and the
mainframes are connected with the 3rd party application (Mercator). 

The GE call center Agent uses the application for receiving queries from
credit card holders (Primary, Co-Primary, Authorized users etc.) based
on the details provided and responds to the same by checking the
information with the Workstation application. The details given by
Cardholder are verified and only after verification is completed CSR
provides relevant information for getting customer requests processed.
In addition, work requests or change controls can be raised by
prospective customers for information that will be serviced by queuing
the requests and service later by using workflow management.

Role & Responsibility:

Planning the Work requests related to my modules along with my team.

Working with the Business / Business Analysts to understand the
requirements and use it to create technical solutions for the
application with the technical team.

Programming JDBC connectivity and interaction with middleware (Mercator
tool.

Developing Java Servlets as middle-tier

Designing layout and coding front-end using jsp’s.

JavaScript and HTML for client side scripting

Used Web Logic as application server for deployment

Perform Unit Testing using JUNIT.

Preparation / Review of the Technical Design documents and client
sign-off.

Provide technical guidance to the team for development as well as
support issues during testing and resolving the bugs/issues encountered.

Worked as a Configuration Management Lead with involvement of doing 		
config management activities from end to end for many releases.

Interaction with the other teams - Testing team, Infra-Team(support
services),Run team (Production support), Middleware team etc.

Involved in different use case analysis cases like verify, customer
profile, change information, change credit limit, create request,
convenience check/balance consolidation, payment arrangement/paybyphone,
membership transfer/fees, letters, and notes viewing.

Participated in the verification and validation and quality assurance.

Worked on different API’s for the interaction of application and 3rd
party system.

Project#2

Title                        : 2X_Recruit.

 	Technologies        : Servlet, JSP,JSF, Struts, Spring JSTL,
Hibernate, Oracle.

Server 		   : JBoss,Tomcat.

                  Duration   	   : July-2011 to Till Date

                                               Team Size	   : 30
members.

 	Description:

A web based application to track the entire Recruiting process of an
employee in an organization. This product is a combination of several
sub products like 2X-PlatForm, 2X-Recruit and 2 X-Perform.

Among of them I am working for 2X-Recruit. This application will create
the jobs and attaché the applicants who applied to that respective jobs
and also it will track the several data from job creation to till job
get closed like,

Creation of Job Activities (Steps to taken under recruiting Process).

Creation Of workflow.

Creation of jobs.

Creation of Applicants.

Applying the applicants to Job.

Tracking the applicant’s job status, etc.

 	Role

 Involving in production support, bug fixing and developments by using
Agile Process.

Interacting with Client and giving demo for every release.

Project #4   

Project Name	                     : Fleet Management System

Client			        : BATCO (U.S.A) 

Servers		       	        : Apache Tomcat 6.0

Environment		        : JSP, Struts, AJAX, JavaScript.

Database		        : MySQL

Operating System  	        : Windows XP

Role			        : Designing and Development.

Description

This product used by transport organizations to maintain their fleet.
The BATCO management system is mainly developed to maintain the
information about the exports and imports to various branches located in
various places in USA. To share the information from different branches
every day every branch will get the information whenever they browse the
information from the web server. It is broadly categorized into several
modules as Operations, Material Management, Human Resource, Consignment,
and Billing. The operations module includes all the details related to
vehicle Management and accomplishes management of Services, The
Management of Mechanics, Drivers and staff is done in HR module, and
Consignment module covers the tracking of the consignments and billing
modules deals with currency related things

Responsibilities:

 

Designed screens using JSP.

Involved in coding beans for Business Logic.

Involved in JavaScript functions for client side Validations

Involved in developing Web Component using Html, JSP using Struts Frame
work for certain modules.

Involved in coding, unit testing and implementation.

Project #5

	Project Title                   	: Case Management System

Client                              	: Fan, Fitzpatrick & Thompson, LLP,
USA.

Servers		 	: Apache Tomcat 6.0

Environment		: Servlets, JSP, JavaScript, AJAX

Database                       	:  MySQL

Operating System         	: Windows XP.

Role		             : Developer

Description:	

 This case management system is intended as an alternative to the
existing immigration case management systems available in the
marketplace. Using this system, clients (i.e. Law firms / Petitioners /
Beneficiaries etc.) can view their case status online and upload, and
review the documents related to the case. The application provides a
user interface where Law-firms can manage their Attorneys / Paralegals /
Petitioner’s / Beneficiaries' details for managing the case. This will
show various stages in a PERM (Program Electronic Review Management)
process and let the concerned user perform activities. This application
also let the associates to communicate with the other associates
involved in the case through a messaging system.

Responsibilities:

Designed screens using JSP.

Involved in JavaScript functions for client side Validations

Involved in developing Web Component using HTML, JSP and Servlets.

Written the business components using JavaBeans and Controller Servlet
Classes to invoke the Business logic.

Involved in coding, unit testing and implementation.

ACHIEVEMENTS 

Appreciated multiple times by business for my quick resolution to
complex issues & business critical Production issues Resolution, in GO
NO GO call.

Trained in Six Sigma tools and Process Championship.

Awarded two times as the Employee of the Quarter for Q1 2009 and 2010.

Awarded two times as the Employee of the Quarter for Q4 2011 and 2012.

Stepped in as an Associate S/w Engineer in Birla soft and started
working independently in a team and have got opportunity to work on one
of the most critical and important applications by name GE, Workstation.
Slowly mastered in the Workstation and grown to the level wherein I
could independently handle critical use cases in a span of 6-8 months.

Received Responsiveness award from kenexa for Quarter Q1 in 20012.

Several appreciation mail’s for timely delivery of the product’s
delivered till date.

Appreciated from management, for completion of my masters in regular
night classes without disturbing my deliverables.

