Pre-screening Technical Questionnaire :-

From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience)
the following technologies?  

Hibernate                       3 year&
current  project                           
         

Spring                            3 year&
current project

Web Services                            
                                    
            

Core Java                        4 year

Design Patterns               2 year    

UML design                         -    

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)      - Maven 

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools
etc. Tomcat

Ok to start up

80% code 20% design

Name	: AAVULA MOGILI

E-mail	:  HYPERLINK "../../../AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/Temporary
Internet Files/Content.Outlook/WPEMDN3D/mouli.iitkgp@gmail.com"
mouli.iitkgp@gmail.com 

Cell	: 91 9908225989

	

SUMMARY

Having 4+yrs of IT experience in Software Development related to
Insurance  domain.

Hands on experience in development of web applications using Java with
OOPS concepts and various design patterns

Hands on experience in Spring Framework modules like IOC, AOP, ORM,
Spring MVC and Spring JMS.

Hands on experience in using Hibernate ORM tool.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

Senior Software Engineer, Feb 2012 to present in EBIX Software India
Pvt. Ltd. 

Software Engineer, Sep 2010 to Feb 2012 in One Convergence Devices Pvt.
Ltd. 

TECHNICAL SKILLS

Programming Languages: Java, Data Structures and C 

ORM			 : Hibernate-4.2.0

Frameworks		 : Spring -3.2.3(IOC, AOP, ORM, Spring MVC and JMS)

Rule Engine		 : J Boss Drools-5.0.1

BPM Engines		 : Activity 5.13

DBMS			 : My SQL, MS SQL Server

Web servers		 : Tomcat

Version control Tools	 : SVN

EDUCATIONAL PROFILE

M.Tech in Computer Science from IIT  Kharagpur, with 8.59 CGPA

M.Sc in Mathematics from NIT Warangal, with 8.13 CGPS

B.Sc in Computer Science from Kakatiya University, with 76.5% 

Intermediate (Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry) from AP state board,
70.4%

SSC from AP state board, with 71.33%

WORK EXPERIENCE

#1  Project Name 	:	LMIPSS

      Client		:	Liberty Mutual Insurance

      Role		:	Software Developer.

      Technologies	:	Java, Spring, Hibernate, BPMN, Drools, JMS, MS Sql
Server

      Experience		:	Sep -2013 to Present 

      Company		:	EBIX Software India Pvt. Ltd

      Synopsis

LMIPSS is a Rich Enterprise Application that deals with
Producer(Agent/Agency) life cycle.  Producer is a person or some firm
that can sell and/or solicit business for an Insurance Carrier for one
more carrier products/plans for a single or multiple lines of business.
Producer on-boarding or Relationship Management refers to the business
process through which Producer enters into contract with LLAC(Liberty
Life Assurance Co. of Boston) to sell LLAC’s products. Onboarding
process involves multiple phases of evaluation and approvals to assess
the Producer’s eligibility to conduct business with LLAC

      Responsibilities

Analyze and understand requirements.

Developed business process to drive business flow for add/remove  one or
more products in one or multiple lines of business to a producer.

Developed business process to drive business flow for quick actions like
 producer name change request, producer termination, reinstate producer
etc .

Customization of  Party  Management Module like adding relationship
profile information, products while on boarding producer and 
enhancements to the existing PSS Product features

#2 Product Name	:	PSS (Producer Support System) Product

     Role			:	Software Developer.

     Technologies	:	Java, Spring, Hibernate, BPMN, Drools, JMS, My SQL

     Experience		:	Feb -2012 to Sep -2013

     Company		:	EBIX Software India Pvt. Ltd

     Synopsis 

Producer support system manages entire distribution mechanism of any
insurance provider. It deals with the establishment of contracts with
third parties (organizations and individuals) called as enrollment,
hierarchy setup, license, appointment and renewal processes. It also
offers a compensation system to compute commissions and incentives of
producers. 

      Responsibilities

Analyze and understand requirements.

Implementation of enhanced features  in party management module.

Developed business process to drive business flow for quick actions like
  deactivate/reactivate producer.

#3 Project Name	:	Standard AMU(Automated Medical Underwriting)

     Client		:	Standard Life Insurance, Portland, US.

     Role			:	Software Developer.

     Technologies	:	Java, Spring, Hibernate, My SQL.

     Experience		:	Sep -2010 to Feb -2012

     Company		:	One Convergence Devices Pvt. Ltd.

     Synopsis

Standard is a project which gives us the significance of Group insurance
and it deals with group of Applicants who ever applicable for the
Policy. The central idea of this project is having policy life cycle
which have been involved internally in Admin portal and Automated
Underwriting. Standard is having extensive and innovative automated
underwriting process based upon demographic details of the Applicant.
Standard project ensures must be minimized the customer risk while
issuing the Policy unlike paper entry and it also drives group insurance
market to reduce the cost of issuing policy in time frames for the
authorized group of people based on health conditions.

      Responsibilities

Implementation of enhanced features and defect fixing 

Developed screens based on client request

	

