Spring:3 years n current

Hib:3 year

Web service: RESTFUL

Uml design: sequence design( not much)

Design pattern: yes

Build tools : maven/Ant

Application server: weblogic/tpmcat/jboss

8.35/13/60days

12PM sat

Harish Pal Kachhwaha		

E-Mail:    HYPERLINK "mailto:mishragovindi@gmail.com"
hharishpal@gmail.com 	    			                Address:  Sector 7,HSR
Layout 

Mobile:  +91 9742743837					   	         Bangalore-560013. 

Objectives

To attain a challenging position to contribute in the business growth of
an organization, would like to work in creative and challenging
environment where there is a scope for upgrading my skills and knowledge
and where I can take active part in growth of the organization.

Experience Summary- Interested Area

	5.10 years of diversified experience in development, design
implementation and maintenance of software projects.

Hands on experience with JAVA, JDBC,Spring DI,Spring AOP,Spring
MVC(basics),JMS,Hibernate with JPA,PL/SQL.

Knowledge of Essential Frameworks like Log4J, JUnit, ANT, Clear case,
Clear Quest.

Hands on experience with Eclipse and NetBeans IDE.

Exposure Oracle PL/SQL coding, Oracle data pump Utilities.

Basic domain knowledge of Telecommunication.

Like to continually learn, mentor and develop my career.

Motivated and ambitious with good interpersonal communication,
relationship management.

Professional Experience (5.10 years)

BT e-serv Private Limited, Bangalore (  HYPERLINK "http://www.bt.com" 
www.bt.com ) Working as Consultant in BT e-serv Private
Limited,Bangalore from May 2013 to till date.

ARICENT Group, Bangalore (  HYPERLINK "http://www.aricent.com" 
www.aricent.com ) Worked as a Sr. Software Engineer in ARICENT Group,
Bangalore from May 2010 to April 2013.

Exilant Technologies, Bangalore (  HYPERLINK "http://www.aricent.com" 
www.exilant.com ) Worked as a Software Engineer in Exilant Technologies,
Bangalore from Jan 2009 to May 2010.

Technical Summary

Java/J2EE              : Java,JDBC,Swings,Hibernate,Spring DI,Spring
AOP,Spring MVC(basics),JMS,EJB(Basics)

Databases               : Oracle 11g,PL/SQL blocks.

Development Tools : Eclipse, NetBeans, ClearCase, ClearQuest,Smart Svn

Web/App Server     : Tomcat,Weblogic

Operating System   : Windows Series, LINUX.

Academic Qualifications

 B.E. (Information Technology) - 70.70 % (Honors) from Maharishi Arvind
Institute of Engineering and Technology, Jaipur, Rajasthan.

2003-Senior Secondary-68.8% from CPS, Jaipur affiliated to CBSE.

2001-Secondary-79.40% from CPS ,Jaipur affiliated to CBSE

Software Project 

Equinox Order Processor

Client		: BT, UK.

Domain                  : Telecom Billing

Technologies	: Java, Linux/Unix, Weblogic, Spring, JMS, Hibernate,
Oracle11g.

Company	     	: BT e-serve Private Limited, Bangalore

Duration		: May 2013 – Till now.

Description	:  

Framework has been designed for management of order processing. Accepts
order from CRM and define mechanism for fulfilling the order, internally
uses the finite state mode. 

     Role & Responsibilities: 	

Design and development of new features using Java. Component Lead
handling ASG(Application Support Group)

Design, Coding, Unit Testing.

Writing PL/SQL code blocks.

Bug Fixing with RCA.

Order Fulfillment System

Client		: BT, UK.

Domain                  : Telecom Billing

Technologies	: Java, Linux/Unix, WebLogic, Swings, EJB, JMS, Hibernate,
Oracle11g.

Company	     	: BT e-serve Private Limited, Bangalore

Duration		: May 2013 – Till now.

Description	:  

Framework has been designed for management of order processing. Accepts
order from CRM and define mechanism for fulfilling the order, internally
uses the finite state mode. 

     Role & Responsibilities: 	

Design and development of new features using Java.

Design,Coding,Unit Testing.

Writing PL/SQL code blocks.

Bug Fixing with RCA.

Product Catalog

Client		: Comverse, USA.

Domain                  : Telecom Billing

Technologies	: Java, Linux/Unix, JBoss, Swings, Spring, Hibernate,
Workpoint, Oracle11g.

Company	     	: ARICENT Group, Bangalore

Duration		: Jan 2011 – April 2013.

Description	:  

Framework has been designed for management of Comverse One Billing
product (it is used by various Telecom service providers for pre-paid
and post-paid billing).The basic building blocks such as
offers,bundles,rates etc are provisioned and propagated to online
database thus following the unified data model.

      Role & Responsibilities: 	

Design and development of new features using Java.

Design,Coding,Unit Testing.

Writing PL/SQL code blocks.

Taking backup of databases using Oracle Utilities.

Mentor and manage other team members(Code reviews, Training new
resources)

SME for data propagation and provisioning.

Bug Fixing with RCA.

Single API

Client	      	: Comverse, USA

Domain                  : Telecom Billing

Company	      	: ARICENT Group, Bangalore

Duration        	: May 2010 to Dec 2010.

Technologies	: Java, WebLogic, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle11g.

      Description   	:

The Single API is the core of Comverse ONE billing system. All client
application interact with this centralize business logic. 

	Role & Responsibilities: 	

Design and development of new features.

Coding, Unit Testing.

Bug Fixing with RCA. 

Razor Plan

Client	    	: Exilant Technologies.

Duration        	: Jan 2009 to May 2010.

Technologies	: Java, Hibernate, Oracle,Swings.

            

      Description    	:

     Planning tool for Textile Industry also incorporates features from
order acquisition to

     Shipping. It is an ERP developed for Textile industry.

	Role & Responsibilities:

Developed code in Java.

Developing Screens in Swings.

Database Study and writing SQL Queries.

Personal Information

Father’s Name 			: Rampal Kachhwaha

Date of Birth 			: 27 Dec 1986 

Alternate Email id		: hharishpal@yahoo.com	

       

Declaration:        

I hereby declare that all the above mentioned information are correct to
the best of my knowledge and I bear the responsibility for the
correctness of above mentioned particulars.

Place: Bangalore										Harish Pal 

Date: 

