From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience)
the following technologies?  

Hibernate                              -  2
year,cuurent                              
                  

Spring                                
   - 
5years,cuurent                             
                   

Web Services                        - 
7.8years                                
                

Core Java                              - 
2.5years

Design Patterns                     -   
singleton,factory

UML design                          - No    

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)  -    Maven/ant  

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools
etc.]

Eclipse,netbean,RAD,PMD,sonar,weblogic,jboss

ok for bitchemy

Mulam Anilkumar 

	

Mobile: 09247592177

Email: manil12121982@gmail.com

Summary:



7.10 Year’s of work experience in Software Development.

Working as Senior Software Engineer on Java for Prokarma Softech Pvt
Ltd., Hyderabad. 

Strong skills and Experience in JSP,Servlets, Core Java,Spring ,Struts,
Hibernate ,JMS,WebService,RestfulService,JSTL,Jquery,Ajax, ,Maven,ant.

Leading a team of five to build and maintain a complex distributed
Applications.

Working with an Agile, Scrum methodology to ensure delivery of high
quality work with every monthly iteration.

Expertise in understanding and analyzing the User/Business Requirements
and Software Requirement Specification.

Good understanding of Software Development Life Cycle(SDLC), Agile
Methodologies.

Versatile in adapting and implementing the latest technologies in new
application solutions.

Good communication skills, adaptable to any situation and confident to
take up Challenges.

Professional Experience:



Working as a Senior Software Engineer from Sep 2011 - till date in
Prokarma Softech Pvt Ltd,Hyderabad, India.

Worked as a Software Engineer from Sep 2010 – Sep 2011 in Prokarma
Softech Pvt Ltd,Hyderabad, India.

Worked as a Software Engineer from Jan 2009 – Apr 2010 in
KarishmaSoftware, Hyderabad, India.

 Worked as a Java Developer from Aug 2006 – Dec 2008 in Naipunya
Sourcing, Hyderabad, India.

Educational Qualifications:

	

Masters in Computer Applications from Godavari Institute of Engineering
&Technology (Rajamundry) affiliated to JNTU-2006.

Technical Proficiency:

   	

Operating Systems	MS-DOS, WIN95/98/00,WIN NT,XP

Languages	CoreJava,SQL

Web Technologies	HTML, JavaScript,Ajax

J2EE Technologies	Servlets,Jsp,Struts,Spring,JDBC,EJB 3.0

RDMBS	MySQL 5.0,Oracle 11g,DB2, SQL Server

Tools	Net Beans 5.5, Net Beans 6.5, Eclipse 3.2

Web Servers	Tomcat 5.5

Application Servers	Weblogic 10.3,JBOSS 5.0



Projects Exposure:



Project #1:

Title	: Standard work Management (SWM)

Clients	: UNION PECIFIC RAIL ROAD(UPRR),USA

Duration	       : Oct'13-tillDate

Software	:Spring,java,JMS,WebServices,RestfulServices,
Jquery,JavaScript,Hibernate,Eclipse, Oracle10g, JBoss

Description:

Standard Work management is standardized a work to Create work sheet is
called standard work sheet(SWS). It Contains mainly modules like
SWS,SWES,admin and Dashboard. user can create, edit and delete SWS of
his SWS. Every SWS having some steps how to do the work. every step
having some information relating to how to do the step and what are the
necessary tools and material required is called Standard Work Element
Sheet(SWES).Admin module has privileged to add common data and his
department. dashboard is like a to view all information of  SWS. There
are two type of users. Normal user and Admin.  Admin user can see all
documents created by Normal Users. He can modify and delete the existing
SWS and SWES. Reports generating using itext. 

Responsibilities: 

Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment
utilizing a test driven development approach.

Created and maintained project tasks and schedules.

Worked in close cooperation with project managers and other functional
team members to form a team effort in development.

Collaborated with other members of the product development team.

Coordinated configuration of back-end components in support of
application development.

Utilized pair programming approach to ensure high quality code.

Developing Business logic using Spring

Designing using jsp.

Involved in UI testing along with Unit testing of Code.

Project #2:

Title	: Uniform Defect Record(UDR)

Clients	: UNION PECIFIC RAIL ROAD(UPRR),USA

Duration	        : Sep’12-Sep'13

Software
:Spring,Java/J2EE,JMS,webservices,Jquery,JavaScript,Spring,Eclipse,
Oracle10g, JMS,weblogic10.3

Description:

Uniform Defect Record to create defects for locomotive based on
station.UDR Projects is a tool to see all defects of the
Locomotives.user can see edit the defect.UI  developed using Spring
MVC,Spring service layer and Spring Jdbc.Dynamic Data populating using
jquery.

Responsibilities: 

Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment
utilizing a test driven development approach.

Created and maintained project tasks and schedules.

Provided programming estimates, identified potential problems and
recommended alternative solutions.

Developing Business logic using spring

Designing using Jsps.

Involved in UI testing along with Unit testing of Code.

Project #3:

Title	: Inbound Locomotive Planner(ILP)

Clients	: UNION PECIFIC RAIL ROAD(UPRR),USA

Duration	       : Sep’10- Sep’12

Software	:Wicket,Java,JMS,web services,Jquery,JavaScript,Spring,Eclipse,
Oracle10g, weblogic10.3

Description:

Inbound Locomotive Planner to create work Plan and Locomotive plan for
train and locomotive. Any defects for a locomotive we have to create
plan for that locomotive having the problem we update the date with
which defect it is having.ILP having 4 batch jobs run every 15 mins they
are create automatic work plans, inactivate and update the
characteristics of locomotive. User also can update work plan.Reports
generating using itext .

Responsibilities: 

Designed and coded application components in an Agile environment
utilizing a test driven development approach.

Created and maintained project tasks and schedules.

Developing Business logic using spring

Designing using wicket Pages,Panel,Jsp and HTML

Involved in UI testing along with Unit testing of Code.

Project #4:

Title	: JHIS (Jeeva Healthcare Information System)

Clients	: Life Spring Hospitals, Hyderabad (LHPL).

Duration	       : Jul’09-Mar’10

Software	: Struts1.2,AJAX,Spring,Hibernate,NetBeans6.7,Mysql 5.0,JBOSS
5.0

Reporting tool	:  iReport

Description:

The main functionality of this project is managing devices, integrating
and managing various applications, data and business processes within
and across organizational boundaries .It Contains modules like Masters,
Outpatient, Inpatient, Maternity, Orw, Lab, Radiology, Pharamacy,
OperationTheater, Billing, security, personel, payroll. All database
operations using JPA. Reports of all the modules are generated using
iReport. Reports of all the modules are generated using iReport. The
Application incorporates an integrated computerized clinical information
system for improved hospital administration and patient health care. It
also provides an accurate, electronically stored medical record of the
patient

Responsibilities: 

Developing Business logic using Struts Action classes. 

Designing using  JSPs.

Involved in UI testing along with Unit testing of Code

Generated the reports using iReport

Project #5:

  

Title		:  MBOSS (MagnusBackOfficeSupportSystem)

      Client		:  Magnus School of Business

     Software		:  Struts, Ajax, JSP, JavaScript,   

                                  Tomcat5.5, MYSQL5.0, NetBeans5.5

    Reporting tool	:  iReport

    Duration		:  jan’08-Dec’08

Description: Magnus School of Business is one of the business schools.
It is having around 13 centers all over India. The objective of the
project is to automate their Business Processes. It is a Web Based
Application, which is developed using J2EE technologies using MVC
Framework. It contains modules namely Masters, Marketing, Academics,
Corporate, HR. Each module has got its own importance and most of the
modules are based on Marketing, Academics which deals with the complex
business processes of the Company. All the Database operations are done
using the Stored Procedures, Views. Reports of all the modules are
generated using iReport.

Responsibilities:

Developed Java Classes for different modules.

Involved in Java script coding for different Screens.

Generated the reports using iReport.

Involved in UI testing along with Unit testing of Code.

Project #6:



Title		: Eye Hospital Management System

Client		: Siloam Eye Care Hospital

     Software           	: Servlets, JSP, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax,       
                                                                        
                                

             Mysql5.0, NetBeans5.5

     Reporting tool     	: iReport

     Duration		: Aug‘06-Dec’07

Description: This project developed for Siloam Eye Hospital is a one of
the remote center of L.V.Prasad eye hospital, Hyderabad. It contains
modules namely community, patient, Prescription, Surgery, Billing and
Stock. It is a Web Based Application, which is developed using J2EE
technologies using MVC Framework. Eye Hospital Management System is
developed with the objective of streamlining the treatment flow of a
patient in the hospital, while allowing doctors and other staff to
perform to their peak ability, in an optimize d and efficient manner. It
uses a network of computers to gather, process, and retrieve patient
care and administrative information for all hospital activities to
satisfy the functional requirement of the users.

Responsibilities:

Developed Java Classes for different modules.

Involved in Java script coding for different Screens.

Generated the reports using iReport.

Involved in UI testing along with Unit testing of Code.

      (M.Anilkumar)

