Lead a team 0f 4

Spring: 5 year & current

Hibernate:5 year& current

Webservices7 year& current

DB: oracle

Application: jboss/weblogic

Maven/Ant

Java:10 year ,used reflection

21.8/20%/30days

Phone 09885863330, • E-mail kmeeraj@gmail.com

Meeraj Kanaparthi

PROFILE

	I have almost 9.5 years’ experience in Java, J2EE technologies. I
have finished PGDBA (MBA Correspondence) in Banking and Finance from
Symbiosis.

Aspires to work in a challenging environment with the opportunity to
grow. 

Well-developed skills in Java, J2EE, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, IBM
Websphere Portal, JMS and Web services.

Ability to grasp new ideas and integrate them into desired results.

Strong interpersonal and analytical skills with positive work ethics.

Completed PGDBA course from Symbiosis and MSc (IT) course from Kuvempu
University.

Can combine patience, determination, and persistence to troubleshoot
client issues. 

TECHNICAL SKILLS

	Languages: Java, C/C++, Java , XML, UML, SQL ,JavaScript, HTML5

Operating Systems: Windows NT/2000, UNIX, Linux

Database Environments: Oracle 9.x, MySQL, MsSQL

Design Tools: MS Visio 

Developing Environments: Eclipse, Netbeans, IntelliJ

Servers: Tomcat, Jboss,  IBM Websphere portal

Framework: Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, Struts 1.2, MVCs,AngularJS,
jQuer,SOAP



PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE





	Project: Banking Application	       Aug 2014 – Till Date

	Organization: Synechron 



Banking Application software is primarily for management of the ATM.
This application is based on struts 2 and spring 3 technologies. This
application  enable users to track costs, invoicing, purchase orders to
support Business Projects as well as Administrative finance needs. To
look up ATM and Site information, create and view projects, purchase
orders and invoices, manage relationships and assign and track tasks.
Future enhancements may include ways to assign convenience fees and
manage statements and rent. Because of the size and complexity of this
new application, it will be developed and implemented in phases. 









	Project: Enterprise mobile device management 	 Aug 2011 – Aug 2014

	Organization: KONYLABS 



Enterprise mobile device management (MDM) software is primarily a policy
and configuration management tool for mobile handheld devices, such as
smartphones and tablets based on smartphone OSs. It helps enterprises
manage the transition to a more complex mobile computing and
communications environment by supporting security, network services, and
software and hardware management across multiple OS platforms. This is
especially important as bring your own device (BYOD) initiatives become
the focus of many enterprises. It can support corporate owned as well as
personal devices, and helps support a more complex and heterogeneous
environment.

Research and Development Division of Parent company KONY Solutions. 

Kony Labs develops innovative Mobile Application Platform and Industry
specific Solutions. 

Kony's approach gives mobile business agility, the capacity to benefit
from rapidly growing—and changing—mobile opportunities.

Technologies used are AngularJs, Jquery, Spring, Hibernate and SOAP web
services,HTML 5



	Project: One View	        May 2010 – Aug 2011

	Organization: CGI 



One View is development project for CIGNA Health care, which is the
leading Health care insurance Service Provider in USA. One View
Application is call center application based on IBM Portlets, DOJO, JSF,
Hibernate and Chordiant for health care domain. We were given task to
develop portlets for One View application, integrating with
Webservice(SOAP), JMS and Chordiant.



	Project: Cura Software	Nov 2009 – Apr 2010

	Organization: Cura Software



Cura provides web based solution, which is developed on GWT 1.5 and Gxt
2.1.0(Ext JS), hibernate as data layer.

Cura, established in 2002, provides smarter software solutions designed
to enable businesses around the world quickly achieve the bottom-line
benefits in governance, risk management, compliance (GRC) and
performance management.

For over six years, Cura has developed enterprise solutions that have
assisted over 200 organizations meet their Risk and Compliance
needs.  Cura is considered a leading GRC vendor by Gartner Research and
Forrester Research. (Link:   HYPERLINK
"http://www.curasoftware.com/Pages/default.asp"
http://www.curasoftware.com/Pages/default.asp ) 

It achieves this through fast implementation and easier configurability,
coupled with true enterprise architecture. Cura is rated as a global
leader in the GRC field by Forrester Research and Gartner Research.

SoftPro Systems Ltd, headquartered in Hyderabad, India, had acquired
100% of South African software solutions provider Cura Software. 



	Project: Order to Settlement(O2S) 	Oct 2007 - Nov 2009

	Client: GE Energy, New York, USA



Organization: Satyam computer services Ltd.



The O2S module will enable Purchase Order (PO) presentment, PO
management, shipping, and settlement interactions between GE ENERGY
sourcing and Suppliers in a single real-time, web-based extranet
application. The application will be a global solution, meaning it will
be a viable solution regardless of known internal purchasing or accounts
payable systems. It is a J2EE 1.4 application based on Struts and EJB.
It also contains EJB endpoint to integrate with other business
application through web service and web(with Javascript)



	Project: GAMS Toolkit	Aug 2006 – Aug 2009

	Client: Satyam internal project.



Organization: Satyam computer services Ltd.



GAMS Toolkit is Satyam’ Internal project which is designed for the
Project managements of the various applications. The name GAMs toolkit
was evolved because this project was designed basing on the project
management of the GAMS project. This project is implemented using Spring
MVC Framework (including Javascript)and hibernate.



	Project: Rotor Stacking Program (RSP)	  Nov 2007 – Apr 2008

	Client: GE Power Systems, Atlanta, USA 



Organization: Satyam computer services Ltd.



RSP (Rotor Stacking Program) deals with the stacking of rotor parts to
minimize imbalance. Sliding Window algorithm is employed in the GRSP.GE
Power Systems Manufactures Turbines and Generators. GE Power Systems
uses RSP Program to Procure Discs, which are assembled to form a Rotor.
Rotors for a Turbine or Generator are manufactured by assembling series
of discs to reduce the mechanical imbalance and eddy current. As there
will not be perfect disc, having 2 edges parallel to each other, hence
the disc are rotated at an angle to form a straight rod. The Angle,
length, width and various other parameters are given to input file to
check the efficiency of the disc during the assembly. RSP provide a web
based solution for GE Power System for the Procurement of the disc and
assembly of the rotor.

This is simple MVC project , with JSP, servlet and JavaScript



	Project: TradeSphere Energy Services 	  May 2007 – Oct 2007

	Client: GE Power Systems, Greenville, USA  



Organization: Satyam computer services Ltd.



The customers give the order to the PTS User’s which is received from
GE mentors i.e. the customers give the Delivery Information to the GE
Services which is passed to the PTS User’s. This PTS User’s then
write this given information into the ERP application. As soon as ERP
gets the information, it is then passed to the TRADESPERE application
through the XML files. PTS Users have the access to the TS and these
perform the task of Export Determination .After the process of ED is
completed, the Ship Release Date is set automatically in the TS by the
system and the e-mail or a print copy is send to the Ware House Team
which does the Physical Packing of the Delivery. WH team then sets the
Ship Confirm Date in the ERP application which is reflected in the TS
applications and ERP must work in SYNCRONISATION. TradeSphere is an
application that checks whether the delivery given by the customers
satisfy the Rules and Laws given by VASTERA and then creates an
appropriate document for it.

 These rules and laws may be GE Internal Policies, US Based Laws,
Export Based Laws or Country Based Rules. These rules and laws are
normally referred to as PATCHES. These Patches are updated in the
TRADESPERE using the ADMIN CLIENT TOOL.

Vastera, a leading provider of Web-based solutions for global trade
management and Unibex, a leading enabler of B2B e-marketplaces and
provider of e-commerce tools and services, today announced that they
have partnered to integrate Vastera's TradeSphere B2B global trade
management solutions into Unibex's platform to offer global trade
capabilities across multiple industry marketplaces. 



	Project: Engine Order Shipment (EOS)	  Nov 2006 – Apr 2007

	Client: GE Energy, Houston, USA   



Organization: Satyam computer services Ltd.





The Engine Order & Shipment (EOS) system is an application to manage
engine demand forecasting and actual orders on Supply Chain Management
Business for GE Aero Energy Products. It manages 4 modules in ITO
(Inquiry to Order) and 2 modules in OTR (Order to Remittance), the whole
gamut of forecasts, opportunities, proposals, orders and finally
shipping the engine to the customer. The system is used by Industrial
Aero derivative applications like Industrial, Marine, Lease, and After
Market Sales departments. 

It is a web-based application that will provide a globally accessible
system, sufficiently and efficiently integrated into the process that
meets both current and future business critical requirements.



	Project: Site Tracking System (STS)	  May 2006 – Oct 2006

	Client: GE Energy, Houston, USA   



Organization: Satyam computer services Ltd.



Site Tracking System is a GE Energy initiative which works on Supply
Chain Management Business for GE Aero Energy Products and works on ITO
(Inquiry to Order) module.

It’s a web based application that fully covers the functionality of
Supply Chain Management Business Project ITO module. STS Functional
process is made up of several tracking tasks. These tasks are designed
to encompass different parts of the GE Power Systems workflow. The STS
process commences after the completion of the HOM (Hands over Meeting)
and the sales order and work order numbers for the customer are
generated. Each work order translates into a single unit and is
represented by a project in Artemis. PMO enters pertinent information in
Project PC codes. STS allows role-based access to update various Site
Tracking activities providing real-time information access to all users



	Project: RSI Operations 	  Jul 2005 – Apr 2006

	Client: GE Money Bank, Hannover, Germany   



Organization: Satyam computer services Ltd.



RSI Operations team is supporting the Banking application of GE Money
Bank.  Various activities are performed on the production servers on
daily basis, weekly basis, and monthly basis and on request.  The
support is provided for both the users accessing the application and
also for the business. Java program was developed to automate the data
process. Nilex is the tool which will enable the offshore team to access
the help desk calls raised by the users. The raw data files to be
provided to the Indus Company for Data Migration Process. 

 

	Received appreciations from GE client

Received Award as Best Technical Expert for GEGDC Circle on 2007

Received Award as Best Innovator for GEGDC Circle on 2007

Certifications

	Sun Certified Java Programmer SCJP (Version 1.4)

Sun Certified Web Component Developer SCWDC 

Sun Certified Business Component Developer SCBCD 

Ankit Fadia Ethical Hacking Certification

Professional Summary

	

Currently working in Konylabs as Associate Product Lead. Joined in
konylabs on Aug 2011.

Joined CGI in May 2011 as Senior software engineer and continued till
Aug 2011.

Joined Cura Software (softpro systems) in Sep 2009 as Java Developer and
continued till Apr 2010.

Joined in Satyam computer in Jul 2005 as fresher and continued as Senior
software Engineer until Sep 2009



Education

	PGDBA, cleared with 64% aggregate in 2014.

Symbiosis, Pune

B.E. (Electrical and Electronics ), Cleared with 71.4% aggregate in
2005.

Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology (CBIT),  Hyderabad
(affiliated with Osmania University). 

M.Sc (Information Technology), Cleared with A grade in 2008.

Kuvempu University, Shimoga, Karnataka.

GNIIT, Cleared with Excellent Grade in 2006.

NIIT, Basheerbagh, Hyderabad

12th MPC, Cleared with 82.6% in 2001

Narayana Junior College (Intermediate Public Board – AP)

10th CBSE, Cleared in 1999 with 75%.

Kendriya Vidyalaya Picket School, Secunderabad

PERSONAL DETAILS

	Address: 

	403, Sunrise Residency, Plot no. 15 & 30, Janaradhana Hills,
Gachibowli, Hyderabad. Andhra Pradesh – 500030.

	Phone No.:	9885863330

	Languages:	English, Hindi, Telugu (mother-tongue)

	Email:	  HYPERLINK "mailto:kmeeraj@gmail.com" kmeeraj@gmail.com 



