Sprin

17/20/60days

BALAJI GARIMELLA

	

                                            					  

                      				                   

						                                 Mobile 9740665561	

Bangalore                                                               
e-mail: balu_mailme@yahoo.co.in

KARNATAKA	          				                          balu.mailme@gmail.com

							         

EXPERIENCE SUMMARY

An experience of 10 years in design and development of Java/J2EE based
software applications.

Working as Senior Software Engineer in Manhattan Associates from
December 2011

Worked  in Goldman Sachs, Bangalore from January 2010 till November 2011

Worked in Amdocs, Pune from April 2007 to December 2009

Worked in National Informatics Centre, Hyderabad (June 2005 -  March
2007)

ACADEMIC PROFILE

B.Tech (CS)     –  April 2005 – JNTU, Hyderabad

Class XII         –  April 2000 – BIE, Hyderabad

Class X (SSC)  –  May 1998  – SSC, Hyderabad         

       

CORE TECHNICAL SKILLS

Java, Spring, Hibernate and Struts

ADDITIONAL SKILLS

     Agile Development and Test Driven Development (TDD) (JUnit and
JMock), JSON, EXT-JS

PROJECT SUMMARY

#1 Supply Chain Management Product (Manhattan Associates)

 The flagship product of Manhattan Associates providing end-to-end
automation of the supply chain lifecycle right from Transportation
Procurement to Shipment delivery to the customer

Role(s)

Senior Software Engineer

Scrum member    

Work(s) delivered

Designed and developed Business Classes in Java

Developed Unit test classes for Test driven development

Developed web application using struts framework

Designed REST back-end based User interface using EXT JS (A product from
Sencha), developed back-end supporting service classes in Java.

Guided junior developers on the above tasks, provided design
suggestions.

#2 Margining System 

Profile A high volume high availability system designed to compute
Margin numbers for end clients. It is a strategic real-time system to
generate margin numbers for all businesses of the firm envisaged to
replace many existing non-real-time legacy systems currently under
operation. 

Role(s)

Senior Software Engineer

Scrum member    

Work(s) delivered

Developed code modules (calculators) to enable margin number generation
for few businesses

Developed and configured Autosys jobs

Followed Test Driven Development Approach. 

Used JUnit and JMock extensively in TDD

Used Tibco infrastructure extensively (EMS, RV etc) during development

#3 CRAMER OSS (Amdocs - May -2007 to Jan-2008, April -2009)

Profile CRAMER OSS suite is an operations stack that automates the
telecom providers’ network inventory.

Role(s)

Senior SME (Senior developer)

A member of Scrum Development Team

Work(s) delivered

Implemented webservices over HTTPS on Websphere Application server:

    Developed plesiochronous web service invocation functionality on
Oracle AQ and MDB on Websphere app server – The webservice caller
sends the request message to oracle AQ listened by the MDB which makes
the web service request by preparing a SOAP message and the response XML
is pushed to the response queue, a Thread polls this queue for a
specified time and returns the response message to the web service
caller. Performed keytool operations to process the server certificate
into a client keystore to enable HTTPS call 

Developed Java classes to incorporate new products into the OSS suite.

Designed and developed JUnit Test classes – Test Driven development
(TDD)

Designed and executed test cases in Quality Center

Implemented Struts framework for Web tier.

Product customisation  - Development and Support

#4 Service Management Suite – A Middleware Application (Feb-2008 to
March-2009)

  

Profile A fault management middleware application. The system
orchestrates the OSS (Operations Support System), BSS (CRM) and other
systems to progress and complete new orders. The Business flow is
defined in a BPM environment 

Role  

Senior SME (Senior Developer)

Work(s) Delivered

Designed and developed multi-threaded server side java classes

Defined bean configurations in Spring and Developed system interfaces
using Spring framework

Developed Java classes for Spring Beans

Developed GUI using JSPs

Product customisation  - Development and Support

#5 NATIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT (SARATHI 2.0-Govt. of India) (NIC)

     (June-2005 to March-2006)

Profile The National Transport Project – an RMI based workflow
automation based Application aimed at the simplification of the Vehicle
Licence delivery process in the RTOs all over the country. The software
accomplishes this through a well-defined lifecycle for each and every
service that a person requests. 

Role

Programmer

Work(s) delivered

Developed Business classes and interfaces for License Backlog, NOC and
Metadata modules

Developed Java Swings based forms and core Java classes with
Multi-threading on Netbeans IDE

#4 NATIONAL TRANSPORT PROJECT-ON-WEB (SARATHI-ON-WEB-Govt. of India)
(NIC)

(September-2005 to January-2006)

Profile The National Transport Project on Web - an Enterprise Web
Application aimed at the provision of citizen centric Licence services
through web all over the country. This project brings the Licence
services at the doorsteps of the citizens by decoupling the stages of
the lifecycle of various services that are offered at the RTO.

Role

Programmer

Work(s) delivered

Designed classes useful for design and development of the system.

Designed and developed Business Objects, Presentation Tier Objects for
Licence Application, Licence Data Editor and Master Modules.

Implemented Struts Framework 

Personal Info

Name			: 	Garimella Bala Balaji

          Father Name		:         G K Krishna Somayajulu

Date of Birth		:	23 January 1983.

	Gender		:	Male.

Languages known	:         Telugu, Hindi and English.

Marital Status	:	Single.

	Nationality		:	Indian.

Religion		:	Hindu.

