Rajesh Naidu Chedileti                                                  
              :  +91 – 8147964447

Nagavara, Bengaluru                                                     
               :   rajeshnaidu.chedileti@gmail.com

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY

  Having 3+ years of IT experience in Development and Implementation of
Software

            Applications .

 Have worked on various programming languages and technologies like
JAVA, JDBC, Servlet 3.0, JSP, Struts 1.3 , Spring 3.0 IOC & Web MVC,
Spring Security and Hibernate 3.x  with good knowledge of design
patterns.

Experienced in the design and implementation of dynamic  Web-based
Applications using JAVA EE Server side programming and implementation on
the Web server and Application Servers like JBOSS 5.1 , JBOSS AS 7.1 and
Tomcat 7.0 respectively.

  Involved in Implementation, Deployment and Configuration of
Client/Server. 

  A confident and motivated person with sound technical skills with a
degree of 

           Innovativeness, quick learning and problem solving
capability.

  Recognized for on-time planning, development and delivering quality
solutions.

EDUCATION

  B.E(Bachelor of Engineering) in Information Technology  from JNTUH
with 73.5%.

CURRENT EMPLOYMENT

Organization	:	Cognizant Technology Solutions, Bangalore.          

Period              :           March 2014 to till date.

Designation	:	Programmer Analyst.

TECHNICAL  PROFICIENCIES

Programming Languages	Java[Oops, Threads, Collections, inheritance ,
Exception Handling]

J2EE Technologies:	Servlet, JSP

Web Technologies:	HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX

RDBMS:	MySQL 

MVC Frameworks:	Struts 1.x,Spring 3.0

Persistence Technologies	JDBC, Spring Jdbc,JPA

Application/Web Servers	Apache Tomcat 5.5/6.0, JBOSS 5.1 , JBOSS AS 7.1.

IDE:	My Eclipse, Eclipse



PROJECTS HANDLE: (In reverse chronological Order)

Cognizant Technology Solutions	 Location : India		        March 2014 –
Till Date

Project #1

            Project Name	             : Product Development for Sales
Force Admin and Analytics in  

                                                        Amazon Cloud    
                  

            Role			: Programmer Analyst.

            Team size		: 20

            OS			: Windows.

            Environment	: Spring 3.x, Hibernate 3.x, JPA 2.0, Spring
Security, JBOSS AS 7.1, Single Sign On using JASIG-CAS, AMAZON AWS
Cloud, JSON, Multi-tenancy on Cloud Server

            Tools                              : SVN, Maven.

Project Description:

This Product is meant for analyzing business based on different
geography and customers assigned to a particular geographic location.

Roles and Responsibilities:	 

Actively involved in this project to design and develop Change Request
module.

Involved in code review and bug fixing .

Actively participated in team meeting. 

Involved in client-side validation using JavaScript and jQuery.

Involved in designed and development of web interface using JSP,
Servlet, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and JDBC .

Evolvus Solutions Pvt. Ltd       	 Location : India		        Dec 2012  
– March 2014

Project #2

            Project Name		: Mantle ASBA.

            Role			: Software Developer.

            Team size		: 4

            OS			: Windows.

            Environment	: Core Java, J2EE, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC,HTML
5,CSS3, XML, My SQL 5.5, Apache Tomcat 5.5, JQuery and Ajax.

            Tools			: SVN, Maven.

Project Description:

Mantle ASBA solution, the market leader among the IPO Automation
software, is a web based solution which provides end to end automation
for processing Initial Public Offers (IPO), Follow on Public Offer
(FPO), and New Fund Offer (NFO) and even Syndicate originated
applications by banks. Implemented centrally, banks can process IPO
applications as per regulatory guidelines across all branches. Developed
under the robust Mantle Banking platform, the product has the ability to
handle high volume and high value transactions accurately. The solution
maintains a library of customers to enable operational efficiency. The
solution enables postings to core banking and also supports IPO
applications through internet banking and other channels. The solution
is kept up to date with the regulatory demands.

Roles and Responsibilities:	 

Actively involved in this project to design and develop admin module,
this module has level of access permission (Admin/Sub Admin/Accountant).

Involved in administrator control for User Management, DEBTS .

Involved in code review and bug fixing.

Actively participated in team meeting. 

Involved in client-side validation using JavaScript and jQuery.

Involved in designed and development of web interface using JSP,
Servlet, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and JDBC for administering and
managing users and clients.

I was responsible for various uploading and deployments over tomcat
server. 

Evolvus Solutions Pvt. Ltd       	 Location : India		        June 2012  
– Dec 2012

Project #3

            Project Name		:   ITO Executive Dash Board.

            Role			: Software Developer.

            Team size		: 4

            OS			: Windows.

           Environment	: Core Java, J2EE, Spring, JDBC, Java Mail  
APIs, My SQL 5.5, 

Apache Tomcat 5.5,HTML 5, CSS3,  JQuery and Ajax.

            Tools			: Eclipse.

Project Description:

As the exponential explosion of various contents generated on the Web
Recommendation techniques have become increasingly indispensable. 

Different kinds recommendations are made on the Web every day, including
image recommendations, query suggestions, etc. No matter what types of
data sources are used for the recommendations, essentially these data
sources can be modeled in the form of graphs. In this project, aiming at
providing a MVC framework on mining Web graphs for recommendations of GE
Customers Information. We used high charts to display the graphs and
Oracle 11g for DB. We used media queries to work this project for I pad,
I phone, Blackberry and android devices. 

Roles and Responsibilities:	 

Actively involved in this project to design and develop admin module,
this module has level of access permission (Admin/Sub Admin).

Involved in administrator control for Payment Management, Report
Management and Account management.

Involved in code review and bug fixing.

Actively participated in team meeting. 

Involved in client-side validation using JavaScript and jQuery.

Involved in designed and development of web interface using JSP,
Servlet, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax and JDBC for administering and
managing users and clients.

I was responsible for various uploading and deployments over tomcat
server. 

PERSONAL DETAILS

Date of Birth                     :      12th March 1991

Gender		       :     male			

Nationality                        :      Indian  	

             Address                                 :      Rajesh Naidu

                                                                   
#1151,21st cross,5th block,HBR Layout,

                                                                   
Outer Ring Road, Nagavara, Bengaluru -560045.

                   I do hereby declare that the information given above
is accurate to the best of my knowledge and I may be held responsible
for any inaccuracies in the same.

