                                 Curriculum Vitae

RAJU G

rajujava3121@gmail.com

+91-897-1234-699

Summary

						

I have 6.4 years of experience in the I.T industry. Has knowledge of Web
based   

Technologies , JPA

Spring, Web Services(SOAP),EJB,VAADIN having hands on experience in
Apache Tomcat and Web sphere Application/Web Server.    

Developed various Client-Server/Distributed Applications using Java/J2ee
Technologies

Hands on experience working with agile methodology.

                              

 Ability to grasp latest technologies and software.

 Having Strong technical skills and logical thinking abilities. 

      

 Ability to balance multiple demands and work both independently and as
part of a  

        team to develop solutions.

	

Professional Profile

Employer	                  IBM India Pvt Ltd. Hyderabad.

Title			      Application Developer

Date of Employment	      July 2013 – July 2014.

Employer	                  Artech Info Systems Pvt Ltd, Bangalore.

Title			      Sr.Software Engineer

Date of Employment	      Sep 2010 – July 2013.

Employer	                  Sivashakthi Group of Companies, Hyderabad.

Title			      Software Engineer

Date of Employment	      Nov 2007 – May 2010

Awards

 Team Delivery Excellence on successful go live of PROSA project.

Education

 B.Tech [Computer Science] from JNT University, Hyderabad in 2005

Skills

Languages		       JAVA, J2EE

SOA                                     Web Services , JAX-WS , WSDL ,
XSD , Apache Axis.

Web Technology	       AJAX, FTL, Servlets, Jsp, Xhtml, CSS. 

                                                    

Application Servers	       Web sphere, JBOSS, IBM HTTP Server/Apache
Tomcat.

Databases	                   MySQL, Oracle 9i, DB2

 

Operating Systems              Windows 2000, Linux

Framework		       Spring, Struts, JSF, VAADIN.

ORM                                     Hibernate, Open JPA.

Unit Test Frame Works         JUNIT, Easy Mock.

Build Tools                           Maven

Tools                                   RSA, IntelliJ , STS , Eclipse,
WSAD ,Editplus

1) Project Information

Title		   Application Developer

Duration                             Jul 2013 to Jul 2014.

Project	                              Online Booking System (OBS)

Client			      ProsiebenSat.1 Media AG, Germany			

Technology/Tools	      Spring, Open JPA, Web Services, DB2,  Junit ,
Team City ,Sonar , 

                                          Splunk , Maven , VAADIN.

Description: ProSiebenSat.1 Media AG is a European media conglomerate,

operating commercial television, premium pay channels, radio stations

and related print businesses. It is a commercial television station in

Germany distributed to a large extent via cable and satellite along

with DVB-T (Digital Video Broadcasting - Terrestrial) in larger

population centers.

OBS is a application which helps in booking the Advertisements

for various companies across different TV channels. These

advertisements are the slots which will be allotted to different

companies with appropriate minutes. So this OBS application serves the

purpose of booking of the slots for advertisements for various

companies.

 My Role:

 •      Developed Web Services.

 •      Written persistence logic using open JPA.

 •      Developed User Interface using VAADIN.

 •       Written JUNIT test cases.

2) Project Information

Title		   Sr.Software Engineer

Duration                             May 2012 to June 2013.

Project	                              Prosa (Add sales).

Client			      ProsiebenSat.1 Media AG, Germany			

Technology/Tools	      JDK1.6, JSF1.2, IceFaces2.0, XHTML.

Description: Prosa is developed on JSF application. The purpose of this
application is

to maintain the details of agencies and customers. The agencies are
associated with the

channels. The channels are associated with the customers and their
corresponding orders and products. The valid user can enter into the
application and update/create

Is orders by choosing the channels. We maintain program details like
telecast date, time.

This will vary based on the country. By reading the country code we
telecast the programs.

           

 My Role:

.     Involved to prepare the documents like user Interface design
documents and solution  

         Design documents.

•       Prepared the front end Screens by using the jsf and ice faces.

•       Involved creating and updating the Managed and Backing beans.

•       Writing the CSS classes.

•       Production support.

•       Review the java files which are developed by the other team
members.

•       Fixing bugs reported by the Germany QA team.

3) Project Information

Title		  Sr.Software Engineer

Duration                            July 2011 to Apr 2012.

Project	                             BIPT TIVA (Insurance Frame work)

Client			     BIPT (USA)			

Technology/Tools	      Jsf, XHTML, web sphere, DB2.

Description:  

The purpose of this application is to provide integrated, end-to-end
insurance solutions for today's insurance marketplace .BIPT TIVA has
combined its talents to offer its Property and Casualty insurance
clients a single source for web-based policy and claims administration
solutions. BIPT utilizes its expertise in insurance processing,
insurance regulation, strategic consulting, creative design and systems
engineering to provide solutions that help clients identify and
capitalize on opportunities to improve and expand their businesses.

 This System integrates rating and quotation, underwriting, claims, and
accounting management functions. Together, the features and functions of
TiVA help carriers extend their application process to agents in the
field, streamline the underwriting of policies, and increase their
competitiveness in the marketplace.

Roles & Responsibilities:

Involved in designing the WebPages using XHTML and JSF

Written web service functionality using Apache Axis.

Involved In configuring the Open JPA functionality to perform  

      persistence Operations.    

      

4) Project Information

Project		                      Messaging Services

Title		                       Sr.Software Engineer

Duration		           Sep 2010 to June 2011

Client			           Frank, USA 

Technology/Tools	           struts, jsp, MySQL, web services, windows
2000

Description: Rocket Mobile Messaging is web based middleware financial
application service. Which combines a prepaid debit card with a  mobile
phone-based money transfer service Rocket2U cardholders can access their
prepaid account with their existing mobile phone to check their current
account balance, make payments for goods and services, and make
account-to-account money transfers using only the recipient’s phone
number.

Rocket is linked to the prepaid CardMarte Inc. processor via mobile
numbers with verification of the Rocket Password. Cardholders using a
mobile phone number with a Rocket Password for security. Rocket2u are
the most secure, cost effective way for anyone to store, send, receive, 

and transact funds anywhere in the world. Even if a user is new to text
messaging or uses it all the time, being able to share and receive money
using Rocket2U is very easy. Users can also check their balance, review
recent transactions or get help. And it works on virtually every phone
with most mobile carrier services. 

Roles & Responsibilities:

Involved in developing clients using Java, JSP & Servlet coding confirms
to the java coding standards adopted by Organization.

Written java beans for holding the data. 

Interaction with Project Manager and Requirement gathering

Conducted code reviews as per the standards given.

Deployed application on Tomcat 5.5

Documenting all the activities.

5) Project Information

Title		 Software Engineer

Duration                           Nov 2007 to May 2010

Project	                     	HRIS 

Client			   In house project (Self)

Technology/Tools	   Jsp, servlets, MySQL, windows 2000

Description:   The proposed application is Responsible for maintaining
The Total information of Employers and sales Related Activities of
Sivashakthi Groups. In this application we are having the Following
Modules Hris, Admin, Sales, Inventory, Transport and .This Company is
having various Branches across India. So for Every Branch This
Application can create the User name and Password and also gives the
Authentication to Access our Application depending Upon the Level of
Users. Mainly we are having three types of Users i.e. Admin, HrisCorp,
Branch Second. Admin User is having the total rights to create and
update any information related to the users or data .Branch second is
nothing but DataEntry.This users are maintained branches data and their
sales activities.Hris Corp is intended to maintain corporate office
information related to employees activities training and resignation and
increments and salary process reports. 

I have involved Admin and Hris and Sales Module for this I have used
Jsp, Java Beans, Html, Servlets 

Roles & Responsibilities:

Creating Database Objects with java using JDBC to access data from
Database.

Developed Servlets, JSP and Java Beans Programming.

Deployed application on Tomcat Server 5.0

Involved in Testing.

Personal Information:

Gender	: Male

Marital Status: Married

Nationality: Indian 

The above-submitted information is true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge. 	

Raju G

