Spring: 2 year

Hib: 2 years

Web services: no

Maven

DB: oracle

Design pattern: knowledge

Appl server: tomcat/ web logic

Umamaheswararao G

Experienced Java/J2EE Professional | Sr.Software Engineer

Email Id: Mahesh.gembali@hotmail.com

                              			       Phone 	:  9663548338	

Professional Summary

Dynamic, hardworking and results-oriented professional with
techno-functional skills. Proven track record of 4.5 years in Java/J2ee
& Travel domain experience with focus on Techno Functional. 

Involved in Service development project 

Hands on experience in Spring and Hibernate

Effective Solution Design skills with strong analysis and
problem-solving abilities.

TECHNICAL SKILLS 

Core Skills:

      Programming Languages	Java,J2EE

Frame Works	Spring Core,Spring Batch, Spring MVC, Hibernate,JAXB

Databases	 Oracle,MySQL

Web Technologies	                    HTML, Java-script and AJAX

Code Profiling Tool	SONAR

Servers	Tomcat5.5/6.0, weblogic

Other Tools	Maven,  SVN

IDE	Eclipse



EDUCATIONAL/ACADEMIC QUALIFICATIONS

M.C.A from Andhra University (2009).

 

EXPERIENCE DETAIL

Duration	Designation	Address

Oct 2011 – Present	          Sr.Software Engineer	Mindtree PVT Ltd.,
Bangalore

Sept2010-Oct2011	         Software Engineer	AltiSource, Bangalore



PROJECTS’ PROFILE 

Project Name	Carsales UTD[Ultimate Test Drive]

Client	ABG

Role	Developer	

Environment	 JAVA/J2EE, Eclipse, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate, Spring and
HTML technologies.





Project Abstract:

Allow customers to create reservations on the car sales websites. Once
customers land on a specific VIN, they will be able to book the car at a
specific ABG location for the test drive. Customers will be able to find
the nearest preferred test drive location based on the search criteria.
Customers will receive a reservation number for reference.  This will
reduce the need for AutoNation call back, will increase the test drive
take rate and will allow AutoNation sales representatives to spend their
time being sales consultants, as opposed to test drive schedulers. 

Responsibilities: 

Implemented Bing maps using BingMap7

Involved in developing Location Search module.

Written Proximity logic for the location search.

Facilitate Application Deployment, System Integration Tests, User
Acceptance Test

Go live preparatory activities and involved in Production deployment and
support.

Project Name	Campaign Management

Client	ABG

Role	Sr. Software Engineer

Environment	Oracle, JAVA/J2EE, Eclipse, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate,
HTML technologies.





Project Abstract:

Enable offering variable discounts to users referred from Google search
to either Avis.com or Avis.ca for reservations in US and Canada
locations by integrating with Unica Interact Campaign Management System

Enable segmentation of Google referral traffic into users who are either
recognized or unrecognized:

Refine offer delivery process by using Unica Interact’s learning
capability

Identify customers across brands/channels and establish segmentation
during interaction with the Unica Interact Campaign Management System by
replacing the currently used Individual ID with Universal ID

Enable ABG channels to communicate with Unica Interact Campaign
Management system via a new common services platform

Track and report conversion of campaign offers delivered by Unica
Interact Campaign Management system

Responsibilities: 

Technical Solution Design And Database design

Implemented service to interact with Unica Interact.

Created Dao classes to interact with DB.

Facilitate Application Deployment, System Integration Tests, User
Acceptance Test

Go live preparatory activities

Project Name	COB[Concur Open Booking]

Client	ABG

Role	Developer

Environment	Oracle , JAVA/J2EE, JavaScript, AJAX, Hibernate, ORACLE DB
and HTML technologies



Project Abstract:

Concur Open Booking (COB) functionality is aimed at enabling car
reservations booked on Avis.com with an eligible corporate AWD to
automatically appear in user’s Concur itinerary. A concur user can
enroll for COB only if the user has an Avis Preferred profile which is
linked to his/her concur profile. With COB, Avis.com would display
upcoming Concur corporate trips of COB enrolled users that do not have
an associated car rental and provide a quick and easy way to add an Avis
car rental reservation to the trip.  It would also send the
corresponding rental reservation information back to Concur to be added
to the itinerary.

Responsibilities:

Involved in creating JSP pages

Involved in writing scripts for itineraries

Review test cases

Note: Only latest 3 projects have been included in the resume

PERSONAL INFORMATION

Name	:	Umamaheswararao G

Father’s Name	:	Someswararao

Date Of Birth	:	02-AUG-1986 

Country	:	INDIA

			

I solemnly declare here that all the facts mentioned above are true and
the best of my Knowledge.

Umamaheswararao G

Page   PAGE  1  of   NUMPAGES \*Arabic  4 

