	

Venkata Sreedhar P

Mobile: +91 9642668111      

Spring :4 year & current

Hibernate: 5 year& current

Web services:5 year (REST)

DB: oracle

UML Design: No

Design Pattern:yes

App server: jboss/tomcat

Java: 8 year

13/30%/30 days



	E-mail:   HYPERLINK "mailto:venkatasridhar.p@gmail.com"
venkatasridhar.p@gmail.com 

	

Summary:

8 years of technical expertise in complete software development life
cycle process that includes Analysis, Design, Development, Testing and
Implementation in Java/J2EE technologies.

Experience in Spring Framework and JPA.

Extensive expertise in Model View Controller (MVC) Architecture and
Struts framework.

Extensive experience in developing applications using Java, J2EE,
Struts, EJB, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JDBC, HTML,XML,XSLT, Java
Script.

Experience on Linux environment.

Proficient in applying various design patterns like Singleton, Value
Objects, DAO, and Facades.

Experience on using WinScp, Quality Center and putty etc.

Having strong analytical skills with proficiency in debugging, problem
solving. 

Experience in interacting with clients, business analysts and
developers.

Ability to deliver projects on time with high quality.

Ability to lead teams and provide assistance when need arises.

Hands on experience on Product Development.

Hands on experience on production support.

Experience on Google Web Tool Kit (GWT) using RPC mechanism.

Valid USA B1 Visa till 2022

Technical Skills:

Education:

Master of Computer Applications (M.C.A), from Sri Venkateshwara College
of engineering, Nagarjuna University during the year 2001 – 2004.

Organisational Experience

Working as System Analyst with Cybage Software Pvt.Ltd., from Nov 2010
to till date.

Worked as Technical Lead with Infinite Compute Solutions from March 2009
to Nov 2010.

Worked as Team Lead with SOPHOI Technologies Pvt. Ltd, (Acquired by
Oracle Corporation in September 09) Pune from April 2006 to March 2009.

Since Nov’10 – till date at Cybage Software Pvt.Ltd., as System
Analyst

Project: TravelClick - Interfaces                      		 

System Analyst

Environment: Spring IOC, JBOSS Messaging service, RESTful Web Services
(RESTEasy), XML, XSLT, JUnit, SVN, JBOSS Application Server and Linux.

Client: TravelClick 

Duration: Feb’12 to till date.

Description: 

TravelClick provides innovative solutions for hotels around the globe
that increase revenue, reduce cost, and improve performance. It provides
Reservation Solutions which increases Hotel Bookings, generates more
revenue, and provides support for across all channels. TravelClick holds
the CRS (Central Reservation System) data base. Expedia, GDS,
Booking.com etc booking engines get the data from TravelClick CRS
database and we process the ARI updates and reservations from CRS to
PMS.

Interfaces team provides middle ware solutions for TravelClick
applications. When reservation made on any booking engine, Interface
team gets the xml files and convert those to xmls based on PMS
specification.

Role and Responsibilities:

Analyzing and understanding the BRDs. 

Providing solutions for middle layer.

Task estimations and breaking down the User Stories.

Reviewing the code of team members.

Communicating with Client and participating in Scrum calls

Providing production support for production issues

Project: Nightingale on Demand                      		 

System Analyst

Environment: Java, GWT, Spring IOC, Hibernate JPA, JUnit, SVN and
Windows XP.

Clients: Nightingale 

Duration: June ’11 to Nov’ 11

Description: 

Nightingale Health care system provides online solutions for Hospitals
to create appointments, encounters and admin details. 

Role and Responsibilities:

Analyzing and understanding the SRS documents. 

Preparing the LLDs and designing the DB schema.

Task estimations and task break ups.

Allocating the tasks to the team and making decisions if required.

Developing the Code using Nexia framework (GWT/Spring/Hibernate)

Guiding the Nexia team towards deliverables.

Reviewing the code of team members.

Communicating with client for requirement clarifications and daily
update calls.

Project: DISH Networks                      		 

System Analyst

Environment: Java, JSP, EJB, JUnit, AS 400 screens, ICOMS, IML, SVN and
Windows XP.

Clients: DISH Networks

Duration: Dec’10 to Feb’11.

Description: 

Dish Networks is a direct broadcast satellite TV, Audio Programing and
Internet provider in USA. This project automates creation of house,
finding the free technician, installation of the device, updating the
installation process, billing system, invoice generation. 

Role and Responsibilities:

Analyzing the requirements.

Preparing JUnit Testing cases and fixing the failure cases. 

Execution of tasks as per schedule.

Implementing the IML structure that will help to generate web services
and pojos (business classes).

Handled the team of 5 resources.

Monitoring and guiding the team.

Since Mar’09 – Nov’10 at Infinite Computer Solutions., as Senior
Software Engineer

Project: PFS (Program Funding System)                     		 

Senior Software Engineer

Environment: Struts, Java, JSP, PL/SQL, PL/SQL Developer, CVS, Tomcat
and Windows XP.

Clients: GE (Consumer and Industrial). 

Duration: April’09 to Nov’10.

Description: 

GE Appliances and Lighting uses the PFS application. PFS used to
generate Invoices and reports for the Programs. PFS allows the users to
create programs and allocates the funding amount as investment and
expenses. Each program will have different roles like Program Manager,
Deck Coordinator, Finance Manager, Technical Lead, Program Initiator,
RFM Requestor etc. Program Initiator will create or initiate the program
and RFM requestor/approver will raise ‘Request For Material’ (RFMs)
and allocate funding to each RFM. PFS generate reports and Invoices for
all Programs based on GE Calendar.

Role and Responsibilities:

Analyzing the requirements.

Designed high-level Design documents.

Developed the web application framework using MVC Design patterns.

Developed the front end using HTML, JSP and Business Components.

Organizing and planning of tasks.

Execution of tasks as per schedule.

Preparing Unit Testing cases. 

Support for Production issues.

Project: TACDIS                     		 

Senior Software Engineer

Environment: Java, JSF, PL/SQL, PL/SQL Developer, WinCVS, Oracle App
Server, Windows XP.

Clients: VOLVO 

Duration: Mar’09 to April’09.

Description: 

TACDIS provides information relating to Volvo vehicles (and Ford,
Renault, etc.), both before and after they are sold. It helps the
purchaser to choose the right model, color, engine, equipments,
financing solutions, insurance etc. At workshop it helps to provide
support with booking service appointments, carrying out repairs,
ordering spare parts, and administrating delivery and invoice.

Client side code developed in Centura windows, with Foundation One class
library should be replaced with J2EE web application. There should not
be any changes to server side code developed in PL/SQL on Oracle
database objects like packages and procedures.

Role and Responsibilities:

Analyzing the requirements.

Developed the web application framework using MVC Design patterns.

Allocating resources to complete tasks as per Schedule.

Organizing and planning of tasks.

Execution of tasks as per schedule.

April’06- Mar 09 at Sophoi Technologies Pvt. Ltd., as Senior Software
Engineer

Project: Intellectual Property Licensing Suite (IPLS 3.1)               
     		 

Senior Software Engineer

Environment: Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, Struts, EJB, JDBC), AJAX, J2EE
Design patterns, Oracle Database, PL/SQL, TOAD, CVS, Log4J, Weblogic,
Windows XP.

Clients: Paramount, CBS, Star. 

Description: IPLS 3.1 (Intellectual Property Licensing Suite) is an
enterprise-wide business solution for intellectual property management
and licensing. iPLS™ 3.1 enables companies to identify, organize, and
license rights - structure complex licensing contracts - and manage
royalties - streamlining the process of intellectual property management
and licensing. iPLS™ 3.1 efficiently and effectively handles the
dynamic intricacies of Intellectual Property Management, allowing
companies to achieve the highest returns from their Intellectual
Property asset investments. 

Involved in developing various modules like 

Materials Request

Invoice

Role and Responsibilities:

Analyzing the requirements

Developed the web application framework using MVC Design patterns

Developed the front end using HTML, JSP, Struts tag library

Implemented MVC architecture using Struts framework

Organizing and planning of tasks

Execution of tasks as per schedule

Coding the Business Logic in Service Beans

Maintaining the quality of code

Reviewing and committing the code of team members.

Project: IPLS 3.0                     		

Senior Software Engineer

Environment: Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, Struts, EJB, JDBC), AJAX, J2EE
Design patterns, Oracle Database, PL/SQL, TOAD, CVS, Log4J, Weblogic,
Windows XP.

Clients	: Paramount, CBS, Star. 

Description:

IPLS 3.0 is a Product is a suite of Applications for managing
Intellectual Property Rights.

This is being developed using the J2EE framework. The IPLS provides the
services in the areas of Television Sales, Product Planning &
Acquisitions, and Workflow Management for Media and Entertainment
Industries.

Involved in developing various modules like 

Deals Right Out 

Rights

Roles && Responsibilities: 

Analyzing the requirements

Developed the front end using HTML, JSP, Struts tag library

Implemented MVC architecture using Struts framework

Organizing and planning of tasks 

Execution of tasks as per schedule 

Interacting with DB team regarding Stored Procedures and Functions

Maintaining the quality of code

Project: IPLS 2.0                     							 

Software Engineer

Environment: Java, J2EE (JSP, Servlets, Struts 1.1, EJB, JDBC), AJAX,
J2EE Design patterns, Oracle Database, PL/SQL, TOAD, CVS, Log4J,
Weblogic, Windows XP.

Clients	: Paramount, CBS, Star. 

						  

Description: IPLS 2.0 is a Product is a suite of Applications for
managing Intellectual Property Rights. This is being developed using the
J2EE framework. The IPLS provides the services in the areas of
Television Sales, Product Planning & Acquisitions, and Workflow
Management for Media and Entertainment Industries. Involved in
developing various modules like 

Business Entities.

Roles && Responsibilities: 

Developed EJB components (Session Beans).

Developed the web application framework using MVC Design patterns

Developed the front end using HTML, JSP, Struts tag library

Implemented MVC architecture using Struts framework

Involved in the business layer development using Service Beans.

Implemented Data Access Layer using JDBC and Session Beans.

Involved in Unit testing.

Frameworks	Struts, Spring (IOC), Hibernate, RESTFul WebServices  and TSF
(GE Internal Framework)

Languages	Java, J2EE, SQL, Ajax, XML, JUnit.

Web/Distributed Technologies	J2EE, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JDBC.

Scripting	 Java Script, HTML.

RDBMS	Oracle 8i/9i, MySQL.

Web Servers	Apache Tomcat, Jetty 

Application Servers	WebLogic, Jboss.

IDE/Tools	My Eclipse, Toad, PL/SQL Developer, SQLYog, CVS, SVN, WinScp,
Putty, QC, MS Visio, MPP, Rally, Github

Operating Systems	Windows, Linux.

 

