RESUME

Khader Basha N                                                          Mobile : +91 9866924798

Software Engineer                                           Email id : ak.khader25@gmail.com





From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience) the following technologies?  



Hibernate                                              -  no                                                

Spring                                                     -  2.8year & current                                               

Web Services                                        -  2.8years                                                

Core Java                                               -  2.8years

Design Patterns                                    -   factory and factory 

UML design                                           -    

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)                    -    Maven

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools etc.]

Weblogic/eclipse/sonar





DB:oracle





Khader Basha Software Professional

 

			Having 2.8 years of experience in Software Analysis design and Development

			Strong Object Oriented design skills

			Experience working with Java language

			Experience working with different J2EE technologies like JDBC, Servlets.

			Having Good RDBMS and SQL knowledge using mysql

			Experience working with frameworks Wicket, spring and Hibernate

	Having experience in using the IDE Tools like Eclipse

			Experience working with Maven Project Management Tool.

			Experience working SOA Architecture, developed SOAP services and event handlers.

			Having Good Communication skills, Creative thinking, Quick Learner and a Results Oriented approach

			Having experience working on Agile development model.





Application Development

Design

JAVA / J2EE

Wicket

Spring

JDBC

Maven

JMS

Jaxb

Jenkins

SOAP Services

Agile





Technical Skills



Area

Skills

Special Skills

Client interaction, Requirement Study and Design.

Operating Systems	

Windows7/XP/Vista

Programming Languages

Java, C

Software/IDE

Eclipse ¸Edit Plus, Note Pad++ 

Databases

Oracle 

Project Management Tool

Maven

version control tool

SVN. and Knowledge on Git

Project development model and tools

Agile methodology and version one

Web Technologies

Wicket , HTML

Technologies worked

Spring(exp on Spring IOC, Spring jdbc, Spring jms) ,  Jaxb (xml bindings),SOAP Services, JMS, HP Systinet, Log4j, continuous integration (CI)

Testing

Junit, Testng, mocikto, dbunit  













Education Details



  

 University / College / School

Specialization

Aggregate

Deccan College of Engineering & Technology (Osmania University)

Electronics & Communication Engineering

	73.90%

Sri Chaitanya Jr College,Tirupathi

MPC

	96.50%

Sri Sarada High School

SSC

	90.20%







Employment Details





Name of the Company

Designation

Duration 



Prokarma Softech Pvt Ltd



Software Engineer

	April  2012 to till date





Project Title	

Train

Client

Union Pacific Railway Roads (UPRR),USA.

Duration

Sep 2012 to till date

Location

Hyderabad, India

Role

Team Member

Operating Systems

Windows XP,Windows7

Tools

Apache Wicket, HTML, Java Script, Spring, XML Data binding technologies (JAXB, XMLBeans), Core Java, JMS, SOAP Services,  Junit, Maven 2, HP Systinet

SDE 

Eclipse Indigo





Roles & Responsibilities:

As a Developer  includes:



Requirement analysis & Gathering from the Client.

Creating Daos for fetching and updating data from/to database

Implementing the SOAP services as per the business requirements.

Creating Client Side Web Pages for displaying 

Creation of several test cases and performing Unit and Integration testing of the installed business functionalities to minimize the defect. 

Releasing the projects and handling the deployments

Defect and Issue analysis using Sonar



Description:  It is part of the NetControl Project. TCS is the legacy system of client which is going to be replaced by NetControl. . 

Train represents domain functionality; it consists of several feature groups that would be implemented. The main functionalities that are completed and I worked are

Activate Train:  I developed UI page and an event processor to notify to user upon failure of train activation in TCS. It is in production now.

Update Train Comments:  I have designed search train comments page for this UI and it is successfully deployed to prod.

Determine Template Schedule : Took end to end responsibility to develop this UI application and it is successfully deployed to prod.

 Train Sheet Handler for Foreign Trains

Update Train Attributes: One of the developer to develop this web application now it is in production. 

Train service update-route-location-anticipated-pickup-and-setout :  I have developed this SOAP service, though which we can update the pickup and setout information at a particular location in the Train Route.

Find-train-links service :  I have developed this SOAP service to know the links of a train at a particular location in Train route.







Personal Details



Date of Birth

13 July1988

Sex

Male

Nationality

Indian

Marital Status

Single

Languages Known

English, Hindi, Telugu

 Address

Samata Colony Tolichowki,

Hyderabad.





         





     I hereby declare that the information furnished above is true to the best of my knowledge.

                                                                                                   (Khader Basha)