MR. RATNAKER KATIPALLY

Mob no: +918099905149						  HYPERLINK "mailto:ratnakar.class@gmail.com"
ratnakar.class@gmail.com 

OBJECTIVE

Looking for an opportunity to take up challenging responsibilities as
Technical Architect .

 

EXPERIENCE SUMMARY

Around 10 Years of strong IT experience in requirement analysis, design
and development of enterprise N-tier applications using Java, J2EE
technologies.

Functional experience spread across in Cloud (Openstack), Investment
Banking, Financial and Telecom domains.

Drafted the problem statements and designed solutions to problems.

Analyzed the requirements, estimated, designed efficient solutions and
developed applications.

Very strong in Core Java worked with various data structures and
designed and developed products run in multithreaded environment.

Very strong in both Java associated design patterns and generic design
patterns.

Proficient in developing various server side applications using Core
Java 1.6, Servlets/JSP, Webservices, RESTful, XML, Python.

Developed Network management systems (NMS / EMS) using SNMP, TL1. 

Experienced in using Java associated frameworks Struts, Spring 3.1,
Hibernate 3.2.

Experienced in using web/application servers. Ex Tomcat, weblogic and
WSGI.

Quick learner of the new technologies (Proven in my past experience as
it contains various technologies in various projects), have team leading
skills and good time management skills.

Working with Android 4.4 to develop informative mobile apps. (Sworoscope
on playstore)

Published an article regarding backup and recovery on ip.com

Proven as technical lead and individual contributor.

QUALIFICATION

Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science and Engineering from VREC,
affiliated to Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad,
2004.

TECHNICAL SUMMARY

Programming Languages		: Core Java, J2ee, SQL 

Web Technologies        			: Servlets, JSP, HTML, AJAX, XML, 

  Webservices, RESTful, NodeJs

Databases			 	: Oracle 10g, MySQL, SQLServer 2005, DB2

Frameworks		 		: Struts 1.2, Spring 3.1, Hibernate 3.2

Scripting Technologies			: Javascript, ANT, UNIX sh

Application/web Servers	 	: WebLogic 9, Tomcat 5.5

Operating Systems			: Windows, Linux, Unix, Solaris

Telecom Technologies			: NMS/EMS, SNMP, TL1

Mobile Technologies			: Android 4.4

IDE’s					: Eclipse 3.4 

Versioning tools			: CVS, SVN, GIT

WORK HISTORY

BLOGS AND INNOVATION

Published an innovation article on 'backup and recovery' on ip.com
http://priorart.ip.com/IPCOM/000237492D

Blog post regarding PowerVC remote restart on ibm developer works.

	  HYPERLINK "https://ibm.biz/pvcrrdd" https://ibm.biz/pvcrrdd 

Participated and presented poster in IBM Regional Technical Exchange.

Contributing to openstack community.

Developed an android app with personal interest (Sworoscope).

PROJECT DETAILS

8. Project – PowerVC(Enterprise cloud systems)

Organization	:	IBM India Software Labs

	Designation	:	Staff Software Engineer

	Period	:	Dec 2012 – Till Date

	Technology	:	Java 1.6, J2EE, HTML, JS (DOJO), Python, Openstack 



:	Eclipse 3.2  -

	Team Size	:	15 +

	Role	:	Design, Development, Enabling resources to proceed with Dev and
testing.

	Project Description	:	With IBM PowerVC, You can perform common public
or private cloud operations such as: Provisioning and de-provisioning
servers, Drafting and cloning workloads , Capturing workloads , Starting
and stopping servers as part of a workload , Resizing existing servers.
A flagship product for IBM in cloud, developed using openstack.

	Role and Responsibilities	:	Proposing new solutions, implementing PoCs,
writing design documents after the PoC approval and moving on to design
and development.

Implemented compute drivers for PowerVC IVM, HMC, KVM and NovaLink
hosts. Took ownership of Onboarding, Live partition migration, Remote
restart  functionalities apart from deploy, resize and VM specific
operations.

	

7. Project – WealthStation-Trading (Formerly Automated Financial
System)

Organization	:	SUNGARD

	Designation	:	Senior Engineer – Product Development

	Customers	:	RBC, USBI, Mesirow,  HDVest, StockCross, SAL etc.

	Period	:	Oct 2009 – Dec 2012

	Databases	:	MS SQL Server 2005

	Technology	:	Java 1.5, J2EE, Web services, Spring 3.2, HTML, JS, Jasper



:	Tomcat 5.5, Eclipse 3.2, SVN

	Team Size	:	10

	Role	:	Design, Development

	Project Description	:	WealthStation-Trading(Formerly AFS) is a leading
front-office solution provider in the Investment Banking domain. AFS
solutions deliver advanced functionality such as trading, electronic
account opening, portfolio rebalancing and basket trading through
browser based interface. AFS solutions can be integrated with majority
back-offices (Phase3, ADP, BETA, SIS etc.) and market-data vendors. 

	Role description:

Gathering the requirements from client. Analyzing, estimating and
designing solutions. Developing with Java associated technologies.
Customizing the product to RBC, USBI and various clients. Successfully
handled the design and development of PDFreport generation API using
dynamic Jasper to Mesirow. Designed and developed Basket trading module
for RBC. Handled the BCD module for USBI. Provided various features  to
different clients. Worked with technologies Java 1.5, Servlets, JSP’s,
Spring, HTML, AJAX, JavaScript, C++, Web services using Axis. Understood
the complexity of various financial protocols as our product deals with
most critical TRADING. Efficient algorithms for multiple financial
calculations of different reports. Designed and Developed web services
for the utilizing the data service with PLAID backoffice. Scrum master
while working for client Mesirow. 

6. Project – Merck-Univadis

		Organization		:	Cognizant Technology Solutions.

		Client		:	Merck

		Role			:	Senior Java/j2ee Developer

		Duration		:	Jan-2009 to Jul-2009

		Team Size		:	13

     Technical Environment:	

Operating System	- UNIX, Windows

Technologies		- Core Java 1.5, j2ee, WebServices, Struts 1.2, Hibernate
3.2. 

RDBMS			- Oracle 10g

Application Servers	- Weblogic 9, Apache Tomcat 5.5

IDE			- Eclipse 3.4.  

			Config. Mgmt.		- CVS

			CMS 			- Tibco portal builder and LDAP

  HYPERLINK "http://www.univadis.com/" www.univadis.com  is a no 1
healthcare website in Europe, Canada and USA. It was developed using
Java, j2ee, Tibco portal builder. Tibco portal builder helps to manage
different portlets, pages, users and roles. Core java 1.5, Servlets,
JSP's, Oracle, UNIX, customized frameworks. Using Strusts 1.2 and
webservices to upgrade the application. LDAP is the access protocol used
for the user profile management. Registration, AdminUtilities,
Portallocalization, eprints, LDAPExtracts, evalidation etc are some
modules developed using java, j2ee technologies.  Various webservices 
using axes2 provided utilities but on weblogic server to deal with third
party users like esolut, jzero and cmg.

Role description:

Understood the complete flow of various modules (registration) which was
developed in typical legacy java web development architecture. 

Gathered requirements from clients, analysed, discussed, designed and
Developed applications using Java 5.0, struts 2.0 and Hibernate 3.2 for
new requirements from clients.

Developed and published webservices UnivadisWebServiceAPP,
LDAPUpdatewebservice using Axes2 on Weblogic application server.

Supported the project with Tibco portal builder. Used HPSD for client
interaction. 

Interacted with clients spread over various countries in Europe like,
Portugal, Germany, Lebanon, UK and Canada.

Individually designed and developed a web application ImageExplorer
which is associated with project, used Java, J2ee, Struts and Oracle. It
is an application to store, retrieve and view the images using java.
Implemented j2ee design patterns as a Designer.

Lead and guide a team of 3 in developing the above web application as
well as handling the change requests in the project.

5. Project :  AFM-Location

		Organization		:	Techmahindra Ltd.

		Client		:	BT

		Role			:	Java/j2ee Developer

		Duration		:	Feb-2008 to Jan-2009

		Team Size		:	12

      Environment:	

Operating System	- Solaris, UNIX, Windows

Technologies		- Java/j2ee, WebServices, Struts1.2, Castor. 

RDBMS			- MySQL

Application Servers	- Weblogic 8.1

IDE			-  Xemacs (UNIX), Eclipse(WINDOWS)  

			Config. Mgmt.		- CCM 

Anticipatory Fault Management (AFM) is a generic term used for projects
under Access Network Improvement Program (ANIP). Anticipation of Faults
on residential telephone lines in UK, Calculation of Fault Location for
a given fault within Customer Support System (CSS) and support of Can Do
/ Sustain Process is the responsibility of the AFM system. It has a with
3-tier architecture JAVA processes as the middle layer and ORACLE 8i as
the back end on UNIX). Location project is a UNIX based and uses JAVA
and ORACLE 8i at the back end. Night Routinely Activated Services (NRAS)
is also a part of the system. It acts as a bridge between third party
line test systems which carry out the line tests and AFM which analyses
the results of the tests. Anticipated Hard Fault (AHF) automates the
fault generation on circuits which have been identified as hard suspects
by AFM. It has environment similar to AFM.

Responsibilities:

Development using Core Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Webservices, Struts
1.2 and castor framework. Implemented Hibernate framework.

Implemented multithreading in my applications which deal with extracting
line test results.

Analysing the requirements and preparing a template implementing java
j2ee design patterns. 

Developed end to end applications/services for the requirement given by
client using Existing/new frameworks. 

Coding using core java, xml parsing using castor framework, webservice
implementation using weblogic. Deploying on solaris box.

Lead a team, getting report from them and debugging on the developed.

4. Project – CWM (Cisco WAN Manager) /AMS

		Organization		:	TechMahindra

		Client		:	Cisco

		Role			:	Java/j2ee Developer

		Duration		:	Nov 2006 to Dec 2007

		Team Size		:	09

      Environment:	

Operating System	- Solaris, UNIX, Windows

Technologies		- Java, Servlets, JSP’s

RDBMS			- MySql 4.1

Servers			- Apache Tomcat 

Technologies		- NMS/EMS, Networking Technologies, Routing protocols

         Cisco WAN Manager is an element- and network-management product
for the Cisco MGX Family, Cisco BPX Family, and Cisco IGX Family of
multiservice switches and the Cisco MGX 8880 Media Gateway. Enables
operations, administration, and maintenance of WAN multiservice
networks. CWM has a robust, scalable architecture that meets the demands
of end-to-end Layer 2 configuration, fault, and performance management
control and operation in very large networks.

	AMS is an Element management system (EMS). It resides on the Element
Management Layer of the Telecommunications Management Network Model. It
is a GUI- based interface which provides full remote support of
Configuration management, Fault management, Performance management and
Security management. It mainly deals with retrieval of data from the
Network Element using TL1 commands as an interface and the output is
displayed to the user through GUI developed using Java Swings.

Responsibilities

Understanding about the MGX/BPX switches, Different Routing protocols,
Router and Switches configuration. Given presentations on Java, NMS/EMS
functionalities.

Developed Frontend for NMS using servlets, JSP’s, Swings

Completed CCNA certification for prerequisite of this project

Understanding telecom technologies NMS/EMS, Preparing the design
document.

 Development of Discovery Management GUI screen using Java Swings,
JSP’s.

 Embedded required TL1 commands for Discovery mgmt, communicated through
Telnet API

Simultaneously developed intrasite for our team NetCruisers. Used
Servlets, jsp’s as serverside technologies. JDBC to communicate to the
database is MySql 4.1. And used Tomcat 5.0 as webserver.  Embedded
MediaWiki webportal in our application

3. Project – Marketing information system and shop online

		Client		:	Spectra Marketing

		Role			:	Java/j2ee Developer

		Duration		:	May 2005 to Oct 2006

		Team Size		:	04

      Environment:	

Operating System	- Windows

Technologies		- Java, Servlets, JSP’s, JDBC, HTML, JAVASCRIPT

Servers			- Apache Tomcat 5.0

Database		- Oracle 9i

IDE			- Eclipse		

       Spectra marketing’s Marketing Information System is an advanced
flexible and functional web based information of marketing. It includes
all the functionality of a marketing system like customers, banks and
dealers. It acts as a mediator between all those. Tracking of public
customers, private customers, and regular dealers. Directing every
information from banks to their customers. Database of Customer
information on the basis of Status (Approved, Declined, not yet).having
regular activities like home, providing day to day information of Banks.
Giving separate info for users, customers, (public, private).
Administrator handles regular changes. Every customer has a Username,
Password. Customers can select banks for various loans for various
purposes. Information of Duration for sanction, disbursement. Extra
events like feedback  

Role: Design and development. Developed web pages using Servlets, JSPs.
Database management (update Customers), using UseBeans in JSPs.
Implementing Taglibraries.

2. Project – Stock inventory distribution

       Organization		:	Reachcons IT solutions

		Client		:	Real Stock Ltd.

		Role			:	Java/j2ee programmer

		Duration		:	Aug 2004 to May 2005

		Team Size		:	10

      Environment:	

Operating System	- Windows

Technologies		- Java, Servlets, JSP’s, JDBC, HTML, JAVASCRIPT

Servers			- Apache Tomcat 5.0

Database		- Oracle 9i

	This project is mainly about companies that involve in Stock Inventory
Distribution, the company maintains the stock details of various
companies who are registered with Stock Inventory Distribution .Stock
Inventory Distribution will maintain share values of the registered
companies. The entrants(who are participating in betting)after entering
the Stock Inventory Distribution site with valid password will choose a
set of five companies and gives his predicted share values. At the end
of the month Stock inventory Distribution will announce the actual share
values of the companies. If the average predicted values of entrants are
equal/match with actual avg. then the entrant will be awarded with an
amount of $200. If more than one entrant’s avg. value matches with the
actual avg. then system will select randomly one entrant and he/she will
be awarded with a prize of $200.

Responsibilities: Coding using HTML, Java Server pages. Database
management and JDBC connectivity using DAO’s. Developed the Servlets,
jsp’s and html pages.

1. Project – Academic project

	 	Title			:	Reportum

		Organization		:	Galaxy software solutions

		Software		:	jdk1.3, oracle 8i, windows 2000

		Role			:	Java programmer

		Team size		:	4

Description:It is to promoting an existing reporting tool where reports
can be designed using a drag and drop GUI and we are generating reports
from databases as well as text files also.They may be run, viewed, and
printed from the application or exported as HTML, XML, PDF, DOCBOOK or
comma delimited text files.Providing Java features so runs
anywhere.Report descriptions are stored as XML files. This means you not
only use the reptool GUI but you may also edit reports using your
favorite text editor.

Role description:

Retrieving data from database using JDBC.

Used JDBC, to make Reportum as platform independent.

Implemented the SWING to give an effective GUI to my project. 

Certifications

Oracle Certified Professional Java SE6 Programmer

Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) in June-2007. Familiar with
networking protocols and concepts.

Personal Details:

Passport no			:	Z2778974(UK Visa but never travelled)

Date-of-Birth			:	18-06-1983

Duration	Organization	Designation	Period ( in Years)

Dec 2012 to till date	IBM ISL, Hyderabad	Staff Software Engineer	2.5

Oct 2009 to  Dec 2012	SUNGARD, Pune	Senior Engineer-Product Dev	3.2

Jan 2009 to Jul 2009	Cognizant technology solutions, Pune	Associate	0.7

Nov 2006 to Jan 2009	TechMahindra Ltd, Bangalore/Pune	Technical
Associate	2.3

 

