From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience)
the following technologies?  

Hibernate                           
               -  3years
&current                                
               

Spring                  
                               - 
2years&current                             
                   

Web
Services                                
       - 
NA                                   
             

Core
Java                                  
             -  4 years

Design
Patterns                                
    -   singleton/MVC  

UML
design                                 
          -    

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)                    -   
Ant/Maven  

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools
etc.]

Tomcat/jboss/eclipse/

Ok to startup

7.42/30%hike/60days

DB:oracle

Anil                                                                    
                  +91-7095323696

dhullipallaanil@gmail.com

SUMMARY

Having 4+ years of IT experience with Software Development of Web based
and Client/Server applications. 	

Experience in handling the project end to end.

Enjoy working as a team member as well as independently.      

Experience working on JSP, Servlets and JDBC.

Experience of Open Source Technologies (Structs, Spring and Hibernate).

Hands on experience of JMS, EJB (MDB).

Extensive usage of FTP.

Experience working on JBoss, ESB.

Experience working on FLEX.

Flexibility to work with new technologies.

SKILL MATRIX

Operating Systems:	Windows XP

Languages:	JAVA,FLEX

Databases:	Oracle 9i

Web/Application Servers	 Tomcat and JBoss SOA Server

Java Technologies	J2SE, J2EE, JDBC, JSP, Servlets

Frameworks/Middleware	Struts 1.2, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, EJB-MDB,Wicket

Methodology	SDLC,Agile

IDE’s	Eclipse

Other tools	SVN, Team City

Build tools	Maven, Ant



Experience Summary:

Duration	Organization	Designation

March’11  to  till date	Prokarma Softech Pvt Ltd,Hyd	Sr. Software
Engineer

May’10  to  March’11	Marlabs Software(P) Ltd ,Bangalore	Software
Engineer



PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:

Project #1	         :           On the Job Training

 Client: Union Pacific Roads and Rails                                  
     Duration:   July2014 to Till Date

The purpose of this project is to create a system to support a formal,
standard process for managing and capturing electronic documentation
related to the OJT process for New Hires and Conductors in Training
(CITs). Documentation examples include Field Evaluations, formal
evaluations and exam score results. These forms and evaluations are
facilitated by multiple instructors and field managers throughout the
conductor qualification process.

The solution will include measures or  check mechanisms  to ensure
standardization and fair and consistent application. Additionally, this
solution will capture electronic  signatures  from employees and
trainers confirming this documentation is consistently provided to the
employee.

Environment: Java 1.6, Spring, Hibernate, Wicket,Java script, Ajax,
JQuery, SQL Server 2005, Apache Tomcat 6, 

Tools Used : SVN, VM Ware,Ant.

Responsibilities:

• Taken up the role of offshore coordinator.

• Interaction with business user and understanding the functional
document.

•Analyzing the functional spec and preparation of work request

Project #2	         :           Vesta Management

Client: Trust Vesta                                                     
                        Duration:   Jun 2012 to July2014

       			  			                   

Vesta is a TRUST VESTA project and which provides customer integration
to solve the customer payment processing needs. Vesta comprises of
several lines of business broken up from a general product offering and
technology respective. It supports Wireless, Long Distance, Prepaid
Debit cards, Token Service and payment services. The application is
designed with fully VSF (Vesta Server Framework).

Responsibilities: 

Involved in Migration process of MPP5 ,Shared Session State, SQL 2012
and Order Sweeper

Involved in Pattern defect Implementation for Bin Number changes, IVR
Controller, Phase-2-debit, and Address - Service changes, Money Service
Integration.  

Responsible for Stored Procedure activities in SQL SERVER 2005

Responsible for doing code review/Testing/Debugging and fixing
production issue.

Involved in implementing cobertura tool for the Code Coverage activity.

Integrated the code with Team City (Continuous Integration tool)

Involved in Knowledge sharing and technical problem solving.

Responsible for training new team member for Vesta Framework and
process.

Environment: Java 1.6, Struts 1.2, Hibernate,Java script, Ajax, JQuery,
JSP, Servlets, ANT, SQL Server 2005, Apache Tomcat 6, Tools Used :
Bugzilla, Team City, SVN, VM Ware. 

Project #3	         :     Gordmans Enterprise Managemnet

Client: Gordmans                                                        
                           Duration:     Mar’11 to May’12

             

Gordmans are big in retail domain. Gordmans purchased RMS (Retail
Management Suite) from Oracle Corporation and they have to integrate
this RMS with their existing applications. Mainly two teams were
involved in these Development activities.

OLR: They were customizing the RMS application to fit in with the
Gordmans existing applications.

Prokarma: We are taking care of Integrating the RMS with the existing
applications through JBoss ESBs.

Ultimately the ESBs are acting like a middleman between RMS and the down
line applications of Gordmans. So to communicate between different
systems, where systems know only xml, csv, text files, the ESB will take
care of the transformation and inter communication between various
systems. Sometimes the two Systems might be taking data from Different
databases.

Responsibilities: 

Involved in design and development of 100+ ESB components.

Involved in development MDB Bean and uploading/downloading of  files
using FTP.

Involved in Integrating ESB component with Smooks Frameworks.

Responsible for JAXB/JIBX implementation, Spring – hibernate
integration with ESB 

Involved in Soap Web Services Integration. And also in development of
Audit Logging Module.

Responsible for doing code review and fixing the issues.

Supporting CIT/SIT phases.

Environment: JBOSS ESB, JMS, XML, Smooks, Spring-Batch, Hibernate-ORM,
Oracle, JIBX, JAXB, SOAP based Webservices, and Message Driven Bean,
Tools Used : Maven.

 

Project #4	         :     ITin- Travel Management

Client:  IBS Software Services                                          
                    Duration:  May’10 to March’11

                                            

Description:

                 ITin is a web-based system developed in-house, to
centralize and consolidate the travel management process of IBS and meet
the following objectives:   

    

Establish a single Travel policy across all IBS offices.

Optimize and Control travel costs by consolidating global travel.

Get the best deals globally through the majors service providers in the
industry. 

Make the end-user experience as easy as possible.

Responsibilities:

      

Obtain General information about the Company Travel.

Implemented the FLEX to design the user-friendly front-end screens.

Involved in implementing java code.

	

K

L

M

N

Q

	



 

.

B

L

M

摧⍶<ᘀXjxz<

>

œ

ᘦᅨ቟㔀脈⩂䌏ᑊ伀͊儀͊帀Ɋ愀ᑊ瀀㙨酟ሀj>

œ

̤̀☊଀ņ㄀$␷㠀$⑈愀̤摧滅Û

î 

&

&

ý!þ!

ༀInvolved in implementing Hibernate.

Involved in implementation of Design patterns.

Unit testing of the modules

Environment: Flex, Java,Servlets and Hibernate.   

