From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience)
the following technologies?  

Hibernate                           
                  - 
1years                                 
            

Spring                  
                                  - 
2years                                 
               

Web
Services                                
        - 
                                    
           

Core
Java                                  
             -   3years

Design
Patterns                                
    -    2years

UML
design                                 
          -    3years  

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)                    -   
Maven 

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools
etc.]

Weblogic/tomcat

V V Ajay Kumar	Software Developer



gvvak333@gmail.com | +91-9742346912



Summary 

3+ Years of extensive application programming experience on Java, J2EE,
Hibernate, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Springs, Struts, Oracle 10g.

Excellent written & verbal communication skills. 

Quick Learner and a great listener.

Presently working with Deloitte.

Key Roles and Achievements

An excellent Team Member and a very good communicator.

Responsible for Coding and Integration of Systems. 

Good knowledge in coding Servlets and JSP. 

Development & Peer review of Unit test plans & code reviews.

Test Plan Preparation. 

User Documentation. 

Got appreciations for timely delivery.

Technical Skills 

 Technologies	Java, Basics of Ajax, Servlets, JSP, Struts Framework,
Springs Framework Hibernate.

Databases 	 Oracle10G

Web/Application Servers 	Weblogic, Tomcat 5.5

Tools 	Eclipse, MyEclipse, SVN, SQL Developer, Edit Plus

Operating Systems 	Windows 98/2000,Linux

Trained knowledge	Good knowledge in Springs Framework, Struts Framework.



Professional Experience

Working for Deloitte as Software Developer from September 2011 to Till
Date

Projects Undertaken 

1. Project	Online Transaction Management System.

Client	Procter and Gamble Co, UK.

Role	Developer

Duration	 Aug 2013 to till.

Team size	     10

Environment

(with skill versions)	Software

	Languages: Java/J2EE 1.6, Springs framework, Hibernate Framework.

Database : Oracle 10g

O/s : Windows 7

Web server:  Web Logic

Tools:  Eclipse3.1.



Project Description:   

The System main purpose is to provide online business Transaction. Using
this System, Customers of Procter and Gamble Co, are able to submit
their order for the products on line Client employees are able to submit
their purchase order to their suppliers and also maintain the product
information and stock in hand in Online. With this application they are
able to view all the pending purchase order, sales order, stack in hand,
received material, faulty and destroyed material. This project also
maintains the customer and supplier information and employees
information as well. 

                            This project contains three modules they are
Customer, Supplier, and Administrator. Customer is able to order for
products, Supplier receives the purchase order from the administrator
and dispatches the products and Administrator receives the purchase
order from the customer and dispatches the order to the supplier.

Responsibilities: 

Interacting with the Production analysts for understanding about the
business requirements.

Involved in designing the customer and administrative modules.

Design DAO and their implementation using JDBC Templates. 

Creating and designing web pages using JSP, HTML.

Responsible for developing view and controller components.

Client side scripting using Action Script, JavaScript. 

2. Project	Health Analysis System



Client	NDS America Inc., USA.

Role	Developer

Duration	 July’12 to AUG’13

Team size	     10

Environment

(with skill versions)	Software

	Languages: Java/J2EE 1.5, Struts framework, Hibernate Framework.

Database : Oracle 10g

O/s : Windows 7

Web server:  J boss

IDE: Eclipse3.1.



Project Description:

      This system developed to automate the routine patient data
captures for health organization. HEAL is a health analysis system,
which can be implemented in major hospitals. Health analysis system
plays a vital role to capturing of essential patient treatment
information such as health status, treatment compliance and medication
information.  This system suggests the remedies. This system mainly
consists of Inpatient/Outpatient details, generates reports such as
Cardiovascular System Report, ECG Report, ENG Report, Surgery Details,
Prescription, Healthy heart suggestion, and Diet Suggestion. 

Responsibilities: 

Understanding functional requirements at Technical level. 

   Developing the controller component with the ActionServlet and Action
classes.

   Using Hibernate to connect to the database and also programming
several SQL            queries.

   Creating and designing web pages using JSP, HTML.

Education 

B.Tech from Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Kakinada in 2012.

Declaration:

I hereby declare that details above furnished are true to the best of my
knowledge. I bear the responsibility for the authenticity of the above
mentioned particulars.

Date:

Place:                                                                  
                                           (Ajay Kumar)

