  HYPERLINK "mailto:krishnaphk2@gmail.com"  krishnaphk2@gmail.com 

+91 8790083932 

Summary:  

Hands-on information technology leader with 18 years of experience and a
proven track record of architecting and delivering reliable and scalable
systems in a variety of areas, such as internet/e-commerce, SCM,
Projects, Equipment Management, messaging services etc.

Over 9 years of management experience on JavaEE software development
with open-source technologies. Team management includes co-located
direct reports as well as remote, offshore resource management. Thorough
knowledge of software development process and able to take project from
initial startup, analysis, development, testing, production deployment
and support. 

Experience in architecting, design and development of applications in
traditional software delivery model as well as SaaS model. Experience in
architecting messaging framework using commercial and open-source MOM
products specifically for EAI and legacy application integration.
Software development under LINUX including user/kernel module
application development, and custom kernel modifications.

Having strong technology focus encompassing Java/J2EE, Design Patterns,
mobile technologies on iPhone & Android, Embedded systems , RTOS, Kiel,
Tasking cross Compilers, CAN, DAVE Code Generator, VC++ and C.  

Domain Experience:

Construction, Manufacturing, Retail Domain, E-Governance, Telecom,
Industrial Automation.

Education: M.Tech & B.Tech in computer science – Andhra University

Academics:

M.Tech (Computer Science & Engineering)-1995 – (GATE) – 62%, Andhra
University, Visakhapatnam, India. 

B.Tech (Computer Science & Engineering)-1992 – 63%, Andhra University,
Visakhapatnam, India.

Sun Certification on Technical Architect –Part 1.

IBM Certified Solution Designer - IBM Rational Unified Process (RUP)
V7.0

IBM Certified Administrator - Rational ClearQuest (CQ) v2003

IBM Certified Administrator – Rational ClearCase (CC)

Technology Strengths:

Java,J2EE, EJBs, J2EE Design Patterns 

Android, iPhone,J2ME, Knowledge on Symbian

Entire Rational suite, RUP

Oracle 10g, DB2,MySQL, NoSQL

Microsoft Technologies(VC++)

RTOS, Cross compilers for embedded systems, CAN protocol, TCP/IP socket
prog.

Google App engine, Cloud.

Frameworks: Web sphere,  , Struts, Spring, Hibernate, ATG Dynamo, Clear
Case, Clear Quest, Rational Portfolio Manager, RSA, RPT, RFT

Professional Experience:

5m Apps 	 

CTO : Team Size : 30                                                    
                  java/j2ee, javascript,html5   

  

Responsible for architecting, design & development of applications.
Manage product development engineering teams, ensuring assigned project
goals and objectives are achieved while following product established
development procedures. Work collaboratively with Business Development
team to define product requirements

Conducted a deep process study, process gap analysis, business process
reengineering to design UI and develop better SaaS product.

Lead the business process reengineering effort across “Order to
Cash”, “Procure to Pay”, “Asset Acquire to Retrench” and
Projects (planning, execution, monitoring, client inspection and
billing).

Conducted weekly negotiations between business and engineering teams,
building consensus on the prioritization of bug fixes and feature
requests.

RA - Retail & Accounting 	PopcornApps

Technical Manager : Team Size : 6                                       
            java/j2ee, Spring, Hibernate   

  

This project allows managing the accounting, stock management, orders,
stock reorder notifications for the small & medium retail shops with web
based backup & accounting management.  It also allows retail chain of
shops with pos facility. This allows the RA users to advertise regarding
their shop & availability of stock on web through standard templates.
This supports various type of accountings in various domains like
pharmacy, auto,  grocery, etc..

IIML	PopcornApps

Technical Manager : Team Size : 6                                    
java/j2ee, Google App engine, velocity 

  

The Indian Institute of management Lucknow Alumini services, group
management, topic wise management & discussions, Social presence,
alumini verification are developed in this project. 

Kuali                                                                   
          	PopcornApps

Technical Manager : Team Size : 6                                   
iPhone, Sqlite, Shibboleth, webservices

  

The Kuali Financial System (KFS) project is a comprehensive suite of
financial software designed to meet the needs of all Carnegie Class
institutions. Based on Indiana University's Financial Information System
(FIS), it is the first of the Kuali projects and incorporates the
baseline FIS functionality and approved enhancements. It is a 

Collaborative approach to design, an open development platform, and a
web-based operating environment.

VedicMaths                                                              
                                           PopcornApps

Technical Manager : Team Size :4                                        
                    iPhone, Android, Atom                               
                                                                        
                                                                        
                   

Vedic Maths is a social application developed for Android, iPhone and
Atom platforms. This Application calculates simple and complex
arithmetic operations in Vedic style and shown results in step wise
process.

MovieCorn                                                               
                                                             
PopcornApps 

Technical Manager : Team Size :6                                        
iPhone,Android,Facebook,Php,MySql 

This application developed in different platforms FaceBook, Android,
iPhone simultaneously. Movie corn helps user to find out latest movies
and ratings. User can share, Favorite, Rate, Want to see movies with his
friends and Invite them to do the same. It has features include viewing
friends latest activities, publish  movies list.  Sharing Movies Info. 

Cyclops – ThomasCook                                                  
                                                       Syntel Ltd       
                                              

Project Manager : Team Size :35                            
Java,J2EE,Spring, Websphere,RAD,Oracle 10g                              
           

Thomas Cook retail network consists Foreign Exchange Bureaus and  Call
centres. Shops and bureaus use a bespoke point of sale system, called
RIO (Retail In ONE), and the call centres use an off the shelf package
called Travel Cat. It is the vision and strategy of TC to have a single,
central, point of sale system across the entire retail network.

The Cyclops provides the online booking facility for Travel and Foreign
Exchange across the different consultations. It maintains the Customer,
Booking information across the different branches in different
countries.

Rational/IBM Competency Center                                          
                             Syntel Ltd                                 
                                                                        
          

ProjectManager/PrincipalConsultant: TeamSize:15     Rational Tool
set(ClearQuest, ClearCase,RSA)     

                                     

ICC is responsible to change the process of the projects to RUP across
Syntel in deferent 

verticals. As Syntel has purchased total suite of all Rational Suite
there was an urgent need for raising skill set to mentoring level across
the organization having various verticals. Mentoring top to bottom means
vertical head to Delivery Directors till Developer, tester. To cater
various needs of the organization ICC implemented various Rational tools
Project Console, Build Forge, Clear Quest, Clear Case, Asset Manager,
Rational Software Architecture (RSA, RSM), RequisitePro, Rational
Portfolio Management and Rational Testing tools. Implemented various
workflows aligned with QA processes and defined Configuration Management
for various projects depends on the project dynamics.

Target DI-Fall                                                          
                                                                Syntel
Ltd.                                                                    
                                                                        
    

Project Manager : Team Size :27                                    
Java,J2EE,Spring, EJB,ATG Dynamo,DB2

Target is a chain of Departmental stores. It is one of the top 3 general
merchandise retailers in USA. Today Target operates more than 1500
stores in 47 states. Supply chain management (SCM) is a process of
optimizing delivery of goods, services and information from supplier to
customer. SCM is a set of business processes that encompasses a
trading-partner community engaged in a common goal of satisfying the end
customer. Synchronized & efficient way of managing these SCM activities
according to Target specific needs and reduced the gap between the
order, supply & delivery. By doing so reduced the cost, quantity of 
goods holding in the warehouses and increased the speed of delivery to
the customer.

XTensa-IDE for Xtensa tools & configurable chips              
TenSilicaTechnologies Ltd                                               
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                        

IDE Manager : Team Size :30                                           
Java, J2EE,Eclipse API,CDT, SWT, DB2

Xtensa Xplorer is IDE for all Tensilica configurable chip design
products as well as various supporting tools for those developed chips
which can be used to develop embedded systems, DSPs. Etc. The tools
includes debuggers, compilers, simulators, instruction cycle counters
which can be configured automatically for those developed chips.

Maharashtra Water Supply & Sanitation Department                      
Intrinsic Solutions                             Project Manager : Team
Size :17                                                 Java,
J2EE,EJB,Websphere, DB2                                                 
                                   

This System  atomize various  activities in Maharashtra State’s Water
Supply and Sanitation Department. It includes various works, tenders
calls, tracking,  minister of the concerned department ‘s tours of
total state. It generates various reports on different activities and
keep tracks of various works undertaken. Various levels of officers
controls the system.

Maharashtra Sugar Information System                                    
                Intrinsic Solutions                              
Project Manager : Team Size :13                                         
         Java,J2EE,EJB,Websphere,DB2                                    
                                                                        
                                        

This System tracks all Sugar information from Development to Finance
i.e. Information regarding cane crushing till actual development of
sugar. All sugar industries are linked to main Sugar Co-operative office
at Sakhar Sankul, Pune. 

They can individually view their records i.e. how much ton cane is
crushed, area available in hector for crushing and development of sugar.
 

Net Agents                                                              
                                                               EMindZone

Project Lead : Team Size :8                                             
      Java,J2EE,JavaMail,VC++,Winsock                                   
                                  

These are various tools for all webportals, mail & File transfer
systems. These  tools are developed to cater various needs of customers.
 Which contains notifications mechanisms, remainder services,  auto
forward & auto reply, compressions,  auto 

checking , retansmissions, policy based transmissions to multiple
locations, auto dialing tools.

 

Machine Health Monitoring System  (MHS)                    		       
Infra Engg SDN BHD Project Lead : Team Size :25                   
Embedded systems, C, Assembly, java, C++, MS Visual C++, Winsock,
MATLAB, RTOS, Kiel & Tasking cross compilers, CAN, DAVE code generator, 
 RTOS                                                                   
  

(MHS) is the main large project under the code named Next Generation
Data Acquisition, Processing and Distribution System (NGDAPD) under
which the different sub projects were designed and developed. The
condition of heavy machines like turbines, aircraft engines etc. can be
predicted by monitoring and analyzing signals generated by various
sensors. This project is designed in the lines of common digital
architecture so that it can be customized for various requirements not
only for machine monitoring. All this work done by using 16bit micro
controller units (MCUs) and DSP. CAN & RF, modbus used as communication
protocols. Added data acquisition and analyzing servers and connected to
internet. So that the MCUs can be controlled from the net. To cater
these requirements in house RTOS has been developed.

XeeMail – X.400 Messaging System                       Datapro
Information Technologies Ltd                        Senior Engineer :
Team Size :20                              C++, MS Visual C++, Winsock,
Lex, Yacc, ASN1, SUN Solaris,BSD Unix, Windowsing cross compilers, CAN,
DAVE code generator, RTOS

The different projects undertaken are part of an X.400 messaging System
called XeeMail. It is an Mailing product based on the blueprint of CCITT
X.400 standards. The software is being used for a national E-Mail
service. The message handling system has three major distributed
components. The Message Transfer Agent (MTA) is the unit which switches
the mails based on a powerful policy based routing. The communication
over different media is being handled by a Real Time Operating System,
which supports conventional media like Fax/Telex/Tele Printer/RABMN and
as well as Internet protocols over Ethernet and other media like
PSTN/X.25 etc. The User agent is the third distributed component of the
Message Handling System and is the front end tool for the entire
messaging system. The focus of this project is to integrate the X.400
standard E-Mail technology with conventional media to give integrated
access to all the communication media available in an office
environment.

H Krishna. Penumudi                                                     
       

