RAHUL  SINGH                            

Mobile Number : (+91) 9953577801 

          E-mail:    HYPERLINK "mailto:singh908@yahoo.co.in" 
singh908@yahoo.co.in  

Experience Summary

3.5 years of experience in developing and analyzing end-to-end
applications using Java / J2EE related technologies.

Working as a Senior Software Engineer in Aon Hewitt since June 2013.

Worked as a Software Engineer in Aricent Technologies Pvt. Ltd.

Technical Proficiency	

Programming Languages	Core Java (Collections, Multithreading) & J2EE
(Servlet  and JSP)



Technologies/ Framework	Struts 2.0, JDBC, Hibernate, Springs, GWT

Database	MySQL

Web	HTML, XML, CSS & Java Script 

Tools	RAD 7.5.5, Eclipse 3.3, Maven, SVN

Web Server	WAS 7.0, Apache Tomcat



Educational Qualifications                

            

Passed B.E. (C.S.E.) from Lingaya’s Institute of Management and
Technology with an aggregate of 70%.

Passed All India Senior School Certificate Examination (12th) from
C.B.S.E. with 71.4% marks.

Passed All India Secondary School Examination (10th) from C.B.S.E. with
72% marks.

Projects

CsPro – Aon Hewitt



Description	Hewitt CS Pro integrates customer service across all lines
of business--Benefits, Payroll, and Workforce Management--and leverages
Hewitt’s years of HR Outsourcing customer service experience. The
result is desktop technology that provides exceptional service
efficiency and effectiveness, while requiring a minimum of training for
associates providing customer service. Hewitt CS Pro design has been
driven by user feedback, response to key drivers of customer
satisfaction, and the tenets of the customer experience brand.

.

Contribution	Identifying the requirements and prepared requirement
document.

Involved in both high level and low level design.

Development of web pages as per required functionality in JSP. 

Wrote server side code to cater client request.

Interacting with the onsite team.

Module owner for Call Reduction.

Worked on Security Enhancement Project

Module owner for MCCC Project.



Skills Used	Core Java (Collections, Multithreading, Data Structure),
J2EE (Servlet and JSP) Springs,  Hibernate 3.0, Web Service, AJAX, JUNIT
and MySQL.



NOS – Aricent Technologies Pvt. Ltd. 



Description	NOS (Network Orchestration System) Customer Care application
is a web based application for managing small cells. This application
contains three parts CCA, CSC, and WHA. CCA part represents Customer
care agent, which maintains information about small cells and users. CSC
part represents Customer Self Care, which maintains user information
i.e. registration of user etc. WHA part represents Warehouse Admin,
which maintains warehouse related information as well as small cell
information, Inventory management of small cells.



Contribution	Identifying the requirements and prepared requirement
document.

Involved in both high level and low level design.

Development of web pages as per required functionality in GWT. 

Wrote server side code to cater client request.

Wrote help pages (JSP) for the entire application.

Wrote selenium test cases for entire CCA module.

Worked on CCA and WHA module.

Module owner for Help module.



Skills Used	Core Java (Collections, Multithreading, Data Structure),
J2EE (Servlet and JSP) Struts 2.0, JDBC, Springs DI, MySQL

 ,         

Event Correlation Engine - Aricent Technologies Pvt. Ltd.



Description	Event Correlation Engine are used in system management tools
to aggregate, normalize and analyze event log data, using predective
analytics and fuzzy logic to alert the system administrator when there
is problem in underlying system.



Contribution	Studied various available engines and identified one which
suits our requirements.

Prototyped 3 engines (ESPER, DROOLS and ORACLE-CEP).



         

Achievements 	

Won Gold Award in Feb 2015 for contribution in MCCC Project.

Won Extra Miller Award in June 2014 for Call Reduction Project.

Won Excellence Award in October 2012 for  Event Correlation Engine POC. 




	

 PAGE   

 PAGE   

 PAGE   1 

                                                                        
                    

