Spring: 5 year+

Hibernate: 5 year+

Web services: SOAP

Java: 10 year and current

Design: yes

Oracle/sql server

16.5/17/1 week

Available on Monday(18th May 15)

Aniwesh Vatsal

(E-mail:   HYPERLINK "mailto:talk2aniwesh@gmail.com" 
talk2aniwesh@gmail.com ) Mob: +91 9701506950

Professional Snapshot

A J2EE application developer with around 9+ years of experience in
Software Development of client server and Web based applications.

Presently associated with NCR Corporation as a Senior Software Engineer.

Experienced in end-to-end development of software products from
requirement analysis to system study, designing, coding, testing,
de-bugging, documentation and implementation.

Strong domain knowledge of ATM, US health care, Supply Chain Management.

Effective communication, proficiency at grasping new technical concepts
quickly and utilize the same in a productive manner. 

Comfort in working with cross-cultural and Multinational teams, and
interacting with people across hierarchical levels / globally for smooth
project execution.

Holding USA B1 visa valid till 2018.

Travelled onsite (U.S.A) three times on B1 for different clients. 

Career Highlights

#	Organization	Designation	Duration

1	NCR Corporation	Sr Software Engineer	17th May 2012 – till date

2	Alliance Global Services	Sr. Consultant	20th Feb 2006 – 16th May
2012

3	iAxis Ltd.

	Software Engineer trainee	10 March 2005 to 6th Feb 2006



ACADEMICS

Diploma In Advance Computing from C-DAC Acts Hyderabad. (80%)

MCA from Indra Gandhi National Open University. (64%)

BCA from Indra Gandhi National Open University. (66%)

Achievements

Awarded as Star Of The Quarter award at NCR Corporation (Q1 2014)

Got Special Recognition award at Alliance Global Services (Nov 2011)  

Awarded as Star of the Quarter award twice at Alliance Global Services.

Got Best team award five times at Alliance Global Services.

Brainbench certified in Java 2 Fundamentals (Transcript ID#: 5479710)

Yellow belt certified.

Technical Skills

Programming		: Core Java, Servlet, JSP, JSF, Struts, Spring, Hibernate,
JMS, and JavaScript, AJAX

			  Spring web services, Adobe Flex.

Application Servers 	: Websphere 6.1, Weblogic, JBoss, Tomcat

IDE			: IBM RAD 7.0, Eclipse (Kepler), My Eclipse, Exadel

Operating Systems	: Windows (XP, 2000 Server, 7), Linux

Database		: Oracle11g, MQ SQL, MS-Sql Server

Tools			: CVS, PVCS, HP Open View, Quick Base, Daptive, Jira.

Scripting Lang		: JavaScript, Jython

Work History:

Project 1:

Title			: APTRA Vision.

Version			: 2.3, 2.4 and 2.5

Client			: NCR Product.

Software				: Java1.5, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, Spring Web Service, Flex
Sdk 3.6, Flex BlazeDS, Websphere  6.1, Tomcat 6.0.37, Oracle11g, MSSQL
Server

Duration			: May 2012 to Present.

Role			: Sr. Developer.

Description:

APTRA Vision: APTRA Vision is a next-generation management system that
combines data from assisted- or selfservice devices of multiple types
with business and commercial data related to the network. This provides
unrivaled visibility into what is really happening in your self-service
network and helps you make significant advances in availability,
customer experience, and business performance.

Key Features

Combined Business and Operational Data Analysis

Advanced Graphical User Interface (GUI) with Web Access

Real-time Updates of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)

Geographic Data Correlation

Inventory Management

Incident Management

Multivendor Capability

Software Distribution (SWD)

Different Modes of Operations

Cash Management

Transaction Management

Modes of operations: 

Single Tenant: The more common mode of operation, a single tenant has no

Multi-tenant or partition characteristics.

Multitenant: APTRA Vision offers multi-tenancy support as a purchasable
feature.

Multi-tenancy allows a single centralized APTRA Vision system to support
multiple

clients and keep their data separated in virtual partitions.

Business Partitioning: Business Partitioning is a method for segregating
data across 

multiple customers and users within a single database that ensures that
each

customer and user can only see the data that they are entitled to see.

Project 2:

Title			: SCRWeb & ZIL IBAT Web.

Client			: HAVI Global Solutions (McDonald)

Software				: Java1.5, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, Spring Web Service, JSP,
AJAX, JSP, Websphere  6.1, RAD 7.0, Oracle11g

Duration			: June 2009 to Present.

Role			: Sr. Developer, Production Support.

Description:

SCRWeb is the web based application used by Restaurant Operations for
reviewing order proposals, making changes and approving them. The system
includes additional functionality such as restaurant specific new,
general public documents and support for user maintenance as well as
other miscellaneous functions. 

The day to day operations are broken into the online portion of the
application and the offline portion. The online portion includes all
pages that are used by either restaurant operations or by administrators
of the system. The offline portion includes the ODS2WebMaster pieces
(PPO, SU, Restaurant, Assortment, and Restaurant SU Attributes), the
ODS2WebTransaction pieces (Order Proposals, Contingency Orders) and the
Web2ODS pieces (Auto-approvals, Orders). All the offline portions of the
system are schedule and run via an internal scheduler built into the
application.

The Item and BOM Administration Tool (IBAT) is a web based application
and used by ROP Planners to identify and maintain restaurant menu item
participation data. The accuracy of this data helps ensure accurate
demand forecasting, which in turn helps generate accurate restaurant
order proposals.

Marketing and Event data (MARS) based on McDonald’s planned
promotional and marketing events is reviewed in IBAT, and updated with
current restaurant specific information. Users have access to IBAT data
for one or more DC’s for which they are authorized

Project 3:

Title			: Portico

Client			: Portico Sys.

Software				: Java1.5, Jython, PCL(Portico Configuration
Language),Oracle 9i

Duration			: feb 2008 to May 2009.

Role			: Sr. Developer

Description: 

Part of the Alliance-Portico engagement in providing
implementation/customization solutions of Portico product implementation
to their clients like BCBSMI, BSBSNJ, ACSI, MMM and Care First

Portico offers health plans software solutions extensively focused on
Provider Network Management, PNO Operations, Portico eService, Portico
Data services, Portico NPI, Portico Pricing, and Portico Foundation. 

Project 4:

Title			: AT & T Network Integration (3PP Interface)

Client			: Asurion.

Software				: Java1.5, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, Servlet

Duration			: Sep 2007 to Jan 2008.

Role			: Maintenance and bug fixing.

Description: 

Cingular Address Book (CAB) is a network based address book service that
will allow Cingular customers the ability to synchronize their native
device address book with a centralized network stored address book. 
Cingular has selected Asurion as the CAB 3PP vendor. 3PP is AT&T’s
interface to provide information to 3rd party vendors regarding an AT&T
subscriber.

Project 5:

Title			: Fasttrack Online Application 

Client			: Toppan Photomask Inc

Software				: JSP, MyFaces JSF 1.1, Tomahawk JSF Component, Spring
1.2.8, Hibernate3, JDK1.5 JBoss, Oracle 8.1, Toad Eclipse, CVS.

Duration			: Jan 2007 to Aug 2007.

Role			: Developer, and Unit testing.

Description 

Fasttrack online application is designed to allow customers to follow
the progress of their photomask layers through the processing stages and
operations that take place at Toppan Photomasks, Inc. (Toppan
Photomasks). It enables customers to check the status of their orders,
create custom views of their data, schedule the delivery times and
specify views for status reports, and link to order delivery information
at the carrier's site. The Fasttrack application is rewritten with the
latest technologies.

The application has the following modules: Login, Order Status, Delivery
Schedules, User Profile, Admin, Super User, Reports.

Project 6:

Title			: Thomson Expedition 

Client			: Thomson Reuters

Software				: JSP, MyFaces JSF 1.1, Tomahawk JSF Component, JSF, Spring,
Hibernate, JDK1.4, Weblogic, Oracle 9i, Toad Eclipse, CVS.

Duration			: Mar 2006 to Dec 2006.

Role			: Developer, and Unit testing.

Description:

The purpose of this project is to create an online reference solution
that provides searchable access to information from published books,
articles and other materials. This project will result in an expansive
informal learning solution that can be used in corporate, education,
reseller and consumer markets. The solution encompasses multiple
components and will be available for delivery through the Knowledge Now
platform, a stand-alone application, 3rd party Learning Management
Systems (LMS), corporate intranets and any new delivery options, such as
mobile devices. A key component of this project is the creation of new
“reference learning objects” that can be delivered through both
existing solutions, as well as the new application. Reference learning
objects may include an entire publication, an abstract of the
publication, a chapter of a publication or even an excerpt selected from
within a specific publication. With this application, end-users will
have the abilities to search, organize, list, access and even purchase
reference information. This reference information may include published
content from outside vendors in pre-negotiated arrangements with NETg,
existing Thomson publications, as well as client’s internal
publications and information. In addition to publications, the
application will also have the capabilities to support quick and precise
access to other learning objects of information including NLO’s,
courses, mentoring rooms, live learning sessions, ILT materials, and
more.

Project 7:

Title		: iBridge v2.0 

Client		: iAxis Product 

Software                  : JDK1.4, XML, JavaScript, Tomcat, JSP, Apache
Struts, 

Oracle and Clear Case.

Duration		: Aug 2005 to Feb 2006.

Role		: Developer, and Unit testing.

Description:

When Corporate Organization having offices spread across the country and
the world, regularly holds audio and videoconferences for internal
discussions or with the external customers then iBridge (Conference
Management Package) is the right solution. 

There are various modules like Conference organizer, Conference,
Configuration, Master Member, Search and Reports.  There are four types
of user who can access the system. They are System, Conference
Organizer, Chief and Member. 

1) System: Under system user there may be Conference organizers user. He
is the master user.  He can create, modify, view and delete the
conferences and master members. He can generate the reports and use
different kind of search option. He is having a high level view.

2) Conference Organizer: He can create, view, modify and delete the
conferences and master members.

3) Chief: He can manage the ongoing conferences

4) Member: He can only view the scheduled conferences and ongoing
conference.

Project 8:

Title		: CPMS (Campaign Promotion Management System) 

Client		: iAxis Product 

Software                  : JDK1.4, XML, JavaScript, Tomcat, JSP, Apache
Struts, 

Oracle and Clear Case.

Duration		: Mar 2005 to Aug 2005.

Role		: Maintenance, and bug fixing.

Description:

CMPS is a total Campaign Manager for a telephone or mobile operators
with the availability for the adding and managing the following
features:-

Subscriber Areas

Subscriber Prefix’s 

Subscriber Number’s

Announcements

Users can schedule campaign to be announced on various occasion’s of
the importance. Announcement file could be uploaded in the *.vox, *.wav
format. Multiple announcement files can be announced for single
announcement. 

Main Modules:

Manage Campaign

Manage Setting

User Management

Report 

Global Setting	

Personal Details:

Name		: Aniwesh Vatsal

Father’s name: Dr. Arun Kumar Sinha

Place		: Hyderabad

USA Visa	: B1/B2 (valid till 18th Aug 2018)

