AAKASH KUMAR
Software Engineer
Mob: +91-9560605588

E-Mail:kumaraakash25@icloud.com
4A, B-226 Chattarpur Extension,
Birla Farms -110074(New Delhi)

Career Objectives
To succeed in an environment of growth and excellence and earn a job which
provides me job satisfaction, self-development and help me achieve organizational
as well as personal goals.

Summary






B.Tech Computer Science (2008-12) +Overall 3.5 years of experience.
Currently working in Nagarro Software Pvt. Ltd., Gurgaon.
Acquired good knowledge of OOPS (Java), advanced Java applications, SQL,
Linux, Shell scripting and network associated tools. Other skills include
Hibernate, Spring framework, Web services, Threads, Concurrency,
Algorithms and Data structures
I am reliable, trustworthy, hardworking, fast learner with good interpersonal
and analytical skills.

Professional Experience
Aug 2014-Till Date: Nagarro Software Pvt. Ltd, Gurgaon.
Position: Associate, Technology
Project Name: Ephesoft
Position: Software Developer
Project Description: Ephesoft is an Intelligent Document Recognition software to
interpret and extract meaningful content from unstructured data. It makes it easier for
the end users to file, label and retrieve work material in an orderly manner with ease
and simplicity.
Technology: Java, Spring (IOC, AOP, MVC), Hibernate, Threads and Concurrency,
SQL, Alfresco, SharePoint, Lucene, Spring MVC web services
Team Size: 40
Responsibility and Contributions:
 Developed Ephesoft web services. The Web services are utilized by smart
devices to perform document recognition related operations efficiently. The
web services constitute a part of the paid services offered by Ephesoft, which
are available only with genuine license purchases.
 Handle client tickets to cater the reported bugs and develop hotfixes to
address their concerns.
 Working on patch releases following the Agile methodology to add new
features/functionalities and bug fixes from the previous releases.
 Worked on the third party tool IText for generating searchable PDF from the
input images along with impact analysis
 Upgraded ImageMagick to the latest available version to make Ephesoft batch
processing more efficient. ImageMagick is a tool for rendering the images.



Implicit OAuth2.0 implementation in Ephesoft.

July 2012-Aug 2014: One97 Communications Ltd.
Position: Software Engineer
Project Name: USSD Projects
Project Description: USSD is a protocol used by GSM cellular telephones to
communicate with the service provider's computers. USSD can be used for prepaid
callback service, mobile-money services, menu-based information services, and as
part of configuring the phone on the network.
Technology: Java, Thread and Concurrency, JAX-RS restful web service, PL/SQL,
Linux, Shell Scripting, Collections
Team Size: 5
Responsibility and Contributions:
 Requirement gathering and approach documentation
 Develop USSD short codes for operators Vodafone, Airtel and Idea for UPE,
UPW, Delhi, Mumbai, ROB and other telecom circles.
 Unit testing and performance testing of short codes.
 Deployment of short codes on production servers.
 Scheduling shell scripts to carry out clean up and monitor system
performance.
 Handle client tickets for the reported bugs in the short codes.
Project Name: Calculators for point calculation, MIS generators
Project Description: Point calculation utility works on the principle that points are
credited to the retailers account if certain criteria’s are fulfilled. The more sales a
retailer or his sub ordinates makes, more points are directly added to his account.
The calculations are carried out for every individual retailer, PRE, RDSE, ADSE on
daily, weekly, monthly and yearly basis.
MIS generators have been developed to display summary report to the client for
analyzing the complete picture of the sales figure in a particular telecom circle.
Technology: Java, Spring, BIRT, MySQL
Responsibility and Contributions:
 Approach documentation from product requirement document.
 Develop calculators and MIS reports using Java, MySQL queries and BIRT.
 Deployment of MIS on production servers.
 Handle client tickets to address the bugs or issues.

Academic Qualifications
Amity University – Uttar Pradesh (2008 – 2012)
 B. Tech in Computer Science with CGPA of 7.96
Luck now Public School (2008)
 HSC(ISC Board) in Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry with 92.25%
Cathedral School (2006)
 SSC (CBSE Board) with 81.8%

Summer Internship
Worked on Prison Management System, from 5/5/2011 to 6/7/2011 at E-soft
Technologies Ltd. Team size 3
Project Profile: Prison Management System is an MIS for efficient management of
prisons build implementing J2EE. The application helps to keep a track of prisoners
and their requirements along with the dates of release, remand etc.
Job Profile: Responsible for working efficiently in a team of programmers for
developing the software application within a time bound schedule.

Achievements





Awarded Nagarro Orion Award in February 2015, for outstanding performance
and teamwork.
Awarded Excellence award to Ephesoft team for dedication and timed
deliveries.
Awarded Rock star by One97 Communications Ltd. for outstanding dedication
and hard-work in delivering several deliverables in tightly bound time frame.
Rewarded 100% scholarship from Amity University throughout the four year B.
Tech programme for outstanding performance in academics.

Extra-Curricular Activities





Participated in IORC (Indian Open Rubik’s Cube competition) at IIT Kanpur in
2010 and 2011.
Participated in Freedom Bicycle Ride on behalf of Nagarro Software Pvt. Ltd.
Attended various seminars in IIT Kanpur and Amity Lucknow.
Contributed in ACT (Amity Club of Technology) the official technological club
of Amity University Lucknow campus formation.

Personal Information






Date of Birth
Marital Status
Nationality
Languages Known
Hobbies

25 Sept 1989
Single
Indian
Hindi , English and German
Reading and physical fitness

