Springs: 3 year & current

Hibernate: 3 year& current

Webservices: not worked

Java: 5 year( not workedon reflection)

DB: mysql/db2/oracle

Design pattern : yes worked

App server: websphere/tomcat

12.5/16/90 days

Available @4.30 on sat

Prashant Gopishetty

Email:   HYPERLINK "mailto:prashanthgopishetty@hotmail.com" 
prashanthgopishetty@hotmail.com  

prashanthgopishetty@gmail.com

Mobile	: 91-9032008472                                                  
       

Career Brief:    

Being a self-motivated professional, I can work solo or as a part of a
team in delivering quality solutions that are customer focused. I’m
strongly deadline driven, a rapid learner, have excellent problem
solving skills and a good communicator. I would like my career to
advance parallel to my knowledge base and this evokes in me, a
continuous stimulus to gradient my skills.

Professional Summary:    

Good exposure in Requirements understanding and analyzing.

Involved in developing Client Server & Web based applications.

Good expertise at Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC), 

Familiar with Agile methodology.

Experience in Sanity, and Junit Testing.

Involvement in bug fixing, project enhancement and development and
executing them same.

Experience in java, j2ee, spring, hibernate, GWT and Smart GWT
technologies.

Familiar with the MySQl, postgre sql and good knowledge in Oracle.

Having the knowledge in shell and perl scripting.

Commitment, result oriented and interested to learn new technologies.

Interaction with the clients.

OCJP Certified with 98%.

Educational Qualifications:    

B-Tech in Indur Institute Of Engg & Tech. affiliated to JNTU Hyderabad
in 2007.

C-DAC in IACSD pune in 2009.

Work Experience:    

Working as “Specialist” with   Verizon Data Services Pvt. Ltd.
,Hyderabad since May  2014 to Till date.

Worked as “Team Lead” with   NTT Data Global Delivery Services Pvt.
Ltd. ,Banglore since Jan  2013 to Mar 2014.(Client : Goldman Sachs)

Worked as “Program Analyst” with   Shris Infotech  pvt.
Ltd,Hyderabad since August  2009 to January 2013.

Software Skills:    

Operating Systems 		  : Windows,Linux

Bug Tracking Tools		  : Jira

Languages			  : Java.

Scripting languages		  : Shell scripting and Perl Scripting

Technologies			  : J2ee,GWT

Databases               		  : My SQL,Postgre SQL 

Tools		  		  : Autosys 

ORM Tools 			  : Hibernate.	

Frame Works			  : Spring,GWT and Smart GWT.

Project  Name :Damage Claims Web

Client 				 : Verizon Data Services

Role				 : Team member.

Environment             	 : Windows,Linux

Technologies and Tools Used : java,j2ee, spring,DB2 and Websphere app
server,Tomcat.

Description:

Damages are an award, typically of   HYPERLINK
"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Money" \o "Money"  money , to be paid  as
compensation for loss or injury. Here in this application, outside
plant, if any damage occurs to the Verizon  property then, Verizon will
claim the money from the damager. Here this application will maintain
the total records.

Roles & Responsibilities:

Development of new features.

Bug fixing.

Working on the DCWEB-Tablet development.

Worked on the updating of new core package.

Worked on setup of the server for the application.

Worked on the production releases.

Project Name: MRT

Client 				 : Goldman Sachs

Role				 : Team member.

Environment             	 : Windows,Linux

Technologies and Tools Used : java,j2ee, spring, hibernate, GS
proprietary languages ,My SQL, Sybase, jira and AutoSys.

Description:

Market risk is the   HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Risk" \o
"Risk"  risk  of losses in positions arising from movements in market
prices. The possibility for an investor to experience losses due to
factors that affect the overall performance of the financial markets.
Market risk, also called "systematic risk," cannot be eliminated through
diversification, though it can be hedged against. The risk that a major
natural disaster will cause a decline in the market as a whole is an
example of market risk. Other sources of market risk include recessions,
political turmoil, changes in interest rates and terrorist attacks.

Roles & Responsibilities:

Development of new features.

Bug fixing.

Worked on the bridge between java and slang technologies.

Working on the autosys jobs. 

Worked on the updating of new core package.

worked on GS proprietary language.

Worked on shell scripting.

worked on setup of the server for the application.

Project  Name : EMR

Client 				 : Nightingale,amit

Role				 : Team Member.

Environment             	 : Windows,Linux

Technologies and Tools Used : java,j2ee, spring, hibernate,GWT and
Smart GWT MySQL and Jira.

Description:

An EMR(Electronic medical Record) also called as electronic health
record (EHR) is an evolving concept defined as a systematic collection
of electronic health information about individual patients or
populations.  It is a record in digital format that is theoretically
capable of being shared across different health care settings. In some
cases this sharing can occur by way of network-connected,
enterprise-wide information systems and other information networks or
exchanges. EMRs  include a range of data, including   HYPERLINK
"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demographics" \o "Demographics" 
demographics , medical history, medication and allergies,   HYPERLINK
"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Immunization" \o "Immunization" 
immunization  status, laboratory test results, radiology images, vital
signs, personal statistics like age and weight, and billing information.

The system is designed to re-present data that accurately captures the
state of the patient at all times. It allows for an entire patient
history to be viewed without the need to track down the patient’s
previous medical record volume and assists in ensuring data is accurate,
appropriate and legible.

Roles & Responsibilities:

Development of new features.

Bug fixing.

Worked in ONC certification.

Developed major part of the Scheduling Module.

Developed major part of the Dynamic form creation.

Junit testing.

performance tuning by using JMeter.

Project  Name :OnlineExams

Client 			: Schools in Newzealand

Role			: Team member.

Environment             : Windows,Linux

Technologies and Tools Used : java,j2ee, spring, hibernate,GWT and
Smart GWT MySQL and Jira.

Description:

Online Examination is an Internet based questionnaire. The questions
can be categorized according to type, topic etc. The test is compiled
with questions from different libraries. Tests are created on a random
basis per student with a particular time limit during which they are to
be answered. Online examination helps students and its mission is to
offer a quick and easy way to appear for the exam. It also provides the
results immediately after the exam and security. The user can enter to
write the exam only with their valid username and password.
This examination different type of questions like single option,
multiple options, fills in the blanks and matches the following and
subjective questions. There are no limitations on number of options and
it can be randomized. This provides time limit. 

The user can see their results after completing the exam. This helps the
students to write the exam from far distance and which can provide
security and simplicity and other beneficial features to the user. There
are few other benefits also there like here with their user id they can
prepare the question paper for conducting the exams. so this application
is user for any person to write the exam.

Roles & Responsibilities:

Development of the project.

bug fixing.

Deployment of the application in the server.

Guiding the junior developers.

Management of the few modules in the application.

Junit testing.

Development of the template for project.

Involved in low level designing. 

Declaration:

	I hereby declare that all details mentioned above are genuine as per my
knowledge.

									

 (Prashant.G)

		

 PAGE   

 PAGE   1 

