Allabakash .Gajula

Mobile: +919962193577                        
allabakash.gajula@gmail.com

Summary:

	                                

4 plus years Hands-on experience in Design, Development of the
application   

   Software

Good experience in Object Oriented Programming

Expertise in J2SE,J2EE Technologies(JDBC, Servlets, JSP)                

Experience in Struts framework using MVC architecture

Experience in SpringMVC and Hibernate framework

Good Experience in JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax

Good Knowledge on Design Pattern(i.e. DAO, Session Facade, Business
Delegate)

Good skills in oracle and postgres and MySql databases

Looking ahead for great career in a fair working environment with
opportunities to grow

Quick adaptability to emerging technologies and eager pursue Projects

    	

Career Profile:



Worked as a Senior Software Engineer in Harjai Computers ltd, Mumbai
from 

   June’2014 to Sep’2014.

Worked as a Software Engineer in Sify Software Ltd under the payroll
with 

   Talent Maximus India ltd and Marlabs pvt ltd, Chennai from Aug’2011
to April’2012.

Worked as a Software Engineer in VMT Technologies Ltd, Bangalore 

   From Aug’2009 to July’’2011

Educational Profile:



MCA in St. Augustine PG College, from Osmania University, Hyderabad.

BCA in National Degree College, from SK University, Ananthapur.

Software Skills:



Programming Languages    	:	Core Java

GUI Applications                	:	HTML ,JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax,
JqueryDataTable

Operating systems               	:	MS-DOS, Windows 98/NT/XP, Linux

Database         	:	Oracle 9i, Postgres 8.3, MySql 5.1,SQLServer

Web Technologies              	:	Servlets, JSP, JDBC

Reporting Tool	:	SpagoBI Server, Ireport 4.2

Application/Web server      	:	Tomcat 7.0, JBoss 5.0

IDE & Editors                     	:	RAD Tool, Eclipse 

Frameworks	:	Struts 1.3, SpringMVC 3.1, Hibernate 3.1

Testing Tools	:	ANT Tool



Project Profile:



1) ePDS (Electronic Product Distribution System) 



Client                               :   National Information Centre
(Govt), India.

Environment               :  JSP, Jstl, Spring MVC 3.1
Hibernate 3.1, Ireport 5.1

Database                     :  postgres 8.3

Web Server                 :  Apache Tomcat 7

Description:

ePDS is web based solution that provides online Product distribution
system by Indian government. This is for client National Information
Centre (NIC). Government Can distribute Ration Card online by this web
portal. They can manage there product (food grains, sugar, kerosene oil)
allocation from centre level to end users by this web portal. It
includes 5 major modules RCM, FPS, Allocation, Admin and Report.

Role & Responsibilities: 

Engaged in development of the core modules of ePDS using Java
technologies. 

Responsibility for involved in Allocation Module

Involved in coding Jsp, Jstl, Javascript, JQuery

Responsible for development of business logic in Allocation module using
Spring MVC & Hibernate

2) UTISA Retail Investments & E-Services 



Client                               :   Legal and General, UK.

Environment               :  JSP, Servlets, Jdbc, Struts
1.3, Hibernate & RAD Tool

Database                     :  Oracle 9i

Web Server                 :  Tomcate 6.0

Description:

                 UTISA Investments & E-Services is a Web based
application which helps us to business solutions. We invest on behalf of
institutional and retail customers and are highly regarded by many of
our clients and their investment advisers for providing quality
investment and service. In this project contains four modules i.e. Buy,
TopUp, Sale & Switch services. This modules helps us to invest the funds
for purchasing and servicing funds. And exchanging the funds by the
customers needs. I have involved in Buy and TopUp module.

Role & Responsibilities: 

Development of UI using  html, JavaScript and Jsp

Involved in coding Jsp, Action Classes & Action Forms

Responsible for development of business logic in Buy and TopUp module
using 

      Struts 1.3 & Hibernate

3) IBAS



Client                              :  Bank of Montreal, canada.

Environment              :  JSP, Servlets, Jdbc, HTML,
Struts 1.3

Database                   :  Oracle 9i

Web Server                :  Tomcat 5.5 

Description :     

                                 Integrated Bank Automation System
(IBAS) is an end-to-end Banking Solution, which encapsulates Head Office
and Branch office activities for transactions and data exchange of its
day-to-day operations. Head Office module comprise of Administration,
Staff and Accounts operations.  Where as Branch Office module is to
automate the operations i.e.  Deposits, Loans, Bill Pays, Bill receive
Services, with drawl, Staff and Accounts Operations.

                         The system is developed for open new account,
process daily transaction of account, report preparation and editing the
information of an account. The system is divided into seven modules and
the modules are further divided into number of sub-modules. The modules
are Opening new account, List of account, Individual transaction report,
daily transaction process, and Monthly transaction report, and Edit the
information of individual account.

Role and Contribution:

JSP and HTML are used for presentation.

Developed Front-office Module using Struts Framework. 

Involved in coding of Servlets and JDBC.

 Involved in developing SQL Statements

Involved in Unit Testing using ANT Tool

Personal Details:



Father	Name    				:       Abdul Baseed.

Data of Birth					:       03-July-1981

Gender						:       Male.

Marital Status					:       Married.

                   

