             

V.L.PADMAJA                                                             
          Mobile: +91-9066276884     

                                                                        
                           vlakshmi021@gmail.com	

Objective:

                    To be a potential resource to the organization where
I can utilize all my skills & knowledge which would help the
organization to grow & further enhance my growth profile in a
professionally challenging environment.

Summary: 

Having 3+ years of experience in IT Industry with special emphasis on
developing web based applications using various Java, J2EE technologies
(Core Java, Servlets,JSP, Hibernate, Struts ,Springs).

Exceptional ability to learn new technologies and to deliver outputs in
short deadlines.

Skills on spring framework to provide Better Leverage and POJO
development.

Hands on experience in implementing MVC2 Architecture using Struts
Framework.

Good knowledge in Struts Validation framework. 

Good skills on Web page development using JSP, HTML.

Have good Analytical, Problem solving, Interpersonal and Presentation
skills.

Resolved routine to complex programming problems with appropriate
solutions

Easy learning and flexible to work on different kinds of API’s and
Technologies.

Professional Summary: 

Working as Software Engineer for Micro Land, Bangalore from April 2011
to till Date.

 Education:

Bachelor of Degree from Acharya Nagarjuna University in 2010.

Skill Set: 

Operating Systems	:	Windows XP/2007, Linux 

Java Skills		:	JSP, J2EE, JDBC, Servlets.

Java Related Skills	:	HTML, XML, CSS, and JavaScript.

Languages 		:	Java.

Framework		:	Struts , Spring, Hibernate.

App/Web Servers 	:	Web logic, Apache Tomcat.

IDE			:	My Eclipse, Eclipse.

Repots Generation	:	itext

Databases		:	Oracle .

PROJECT PROFILE:	

Project # 1:

    Project Name: Customization And Implementation Of ERP In Beverages
Company

       Role	:      Java Developer.

      Team Size		:      12   	

      Environment: Spring, Hibernate, jsp, javascript, Oracle, Ant, Web
logic

    

Project Description :

Web Based ERP is applicable for any Engineering and Trading Companies.
This it

CoversQuotations,PurchaseOrders,GRNs,Productions,DeliveryBills,StockMana
gement    for Both Raw Materials & Finished Goods. It also create an
Invoices for Every day  

Data Sold. It also provides Finance,HR Management system. This Web Based
ERP 

Is applicable for any Engineering And Trading Companies. Customer
Relationships 

Main theme of this application

Acquired Knowledge :

 

Understood and developed GRN Module

Good exposure in Finance operations

Good exposure in HR management operations

Roles & Responsibilities:

 Involved in implementation of Controllers.

Developing of JSP Pages

Involved in Hibernate ORM.

Working on Service and Dao layers

Creating Design document, unit Testing and Code Review documents.

  Project#2:

 Project Name 	:      Membership Rewards (Select & Pay)

Role	:      Java Developer.

Team Size		:      10   	

Environment	:      Struts,Hibernate,Jsp,Oracle,Java-script,Ant,Weblogic

Project Description: 

International Select and Pay application is one of the important
applications of Gulf Bank Membership Rewards Program, Which gives
ability to the Card Member to redeem their Credit card Points towards
payment of their transactions. This project is an advancement of Gulf
Bank Online applications for Customer loyalty and benefits. This project
achieves Internalization concept using struts by having same web pages
for all the Gulf enabled International markets. 

Roles & Responsibilities:

Designed GUI’s using JSP’s.

 Responsible for writing Action Classes And Form Beans.   

 Responsible for writing JavaScript to front end validations.

 Writing Test cases & Unit Testing.

.

