                                                                        
                   		                

                          Email:   HYPERLINK "maheshnarendula@gmail.com"
 maheshnarendula@gmail.com 

	            Mobile: 91-9866028416	

Name	Mahesh Narendula

Experience Summary	Have 7+ years of Experience in core to software
development, maintenance and production support using Java & J2EE.
Currently working as Technical Lead(Developer-III) in RealPage India
Private Limited, Hyderabad

Expertise in Core Java, Struts, Hibernate, JDBC, Servlets, JSP EJB2,
Spring MVC.

Good Knowledge of RDBMS.

Good Experience in Resolving Tickets and Change Requests within SLA.

Excellent commitment, dedication and planning towards goal oriented
tasks and problem-solving skills with good interpersonal and
communication skills.

Sun Certified Programmer for Java2 platform 1.4 



SKILLS

Operating Systems	Windows 9.x/2000 server, Unix

Languages	 JAVA, J2EE

Tools	Eclipse 3.x,  CVS,  Log4J,TOAD,SQL Developer, DB Visualizer, SQL
Server Management Studio, HP Virtual User Generator, ANT, Apache Ivy,
Maven, IntelliJ Idea, Git

Domain Specific	Core Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, EJB, JBOSS, Tomcat, Java
Script, Web services (Axis API), Restful Web service

Frameworks	Struts, iBatis, Hibernate, Spring

Job Scheduling Tools	Autosys, ESP Workstation

Change Management/Incident Management	HP Service Center, BMC Remedy

Enterprise Monitoring Tools	HP BAC(Business Availability Center), BMC
BSM(Business Services Management), Introscope CA APM, SCOM



Career Profile 

Project Name	LeaseStar

Client	RealPage India Private Limited

Organization 	RealPage India Private Limited

Period (Duration)	May 2014 to till date

Tools/Components used	Struts, Spring MVC, iBatis, Restful Web service,
JQuery, JBoss, Git, Apache Ivy

Project Description	The LeaseStar Marketplace Suite is the most
comprehensive online marketing solution that works to maximize a
property’s leads to reduce costs per lease. As the premier online
marketing solution for multifamily, the LeaseStar Marketplace Suite
utilizes cutting-edge technology to facilitate apartment marketing
including: apartment website design, search engine optimization (SEO),
online leasing, apartment lead management, internet listing services,
apartment posting tools, off-site leasing staff with a 24/7 contact
center, social media and more.

LeaseStar is the only fully integrated product suite of its kind in the
multifamily housing industry. LeaseStar’s components are software
agnostic, making it possible to integrate the suite with many property
management systems. Top property management companies nationwide use the
LeaseStar Marketplace Suite.



Responsibilities	Involved in writing new controllers in Spring MVC.

Involved in writing new Restful web services according to requirement.

Involved in writing test cases.

Involved in meetings as part of requirements gathering.

Involved in preparing Low Level Design documents according to new
requirements.

Involved in build and deployments.





Project Name	LBPW – Legal Billing Payment Workbench

Client	Liberty Mutual

Organization 	Trianz Holdings Private Limited

Period (Duration)	January 2010 to May 2014

Tools/Components used	Struts, JBOSS, EJB, JSP, Servlet, Hibernate
,JNDI,XML(DOM,SAX),Web Services

Project Description	LBPW is an application which maintains the invoice
payment information that comes from law firms, court vendors and other
vendors who provide services to liberty mutual policies.

Types of invoices:-

Paper Invoice.

Electronic Invoice.

Paper Invoice:-It is an invoice given to LBPW users in paper, where the
user will entry manually through the application.

Electronic Invoice: - It is an invoice given to LBPW automatically by
daily jobs. These jobs pick the invoice file information from B2B.

Invoices and Line items:-

An each Invoice may have 2 types of line items one has information
regarding fees, and the other is expenses. Fees is nothing but the
normal payment which liberty will give to law firms or court vendors,
and expenses will come whenever, the lawyer or vendor spend their money
at the time of case running in court.



Responsibilities	Involved in writing unit test cases.

Involved in resolving production issues.

Monitoring application jobs and troubleshooting issues within SLA.

Testing the jobs according to unit test cases.

Test case/data preparation, execution and verification of test results.

Prepared technical and functional specification document based on
requirements.

Provided 2nd and 3rd level users support, locally and remote, utilizing
the help desk software tool.

Availability, Monitoring and First Response, On-call Production Support 

Representative/Member's Technical problem resolution through incident
tickets

Production Server Log Monitoring for Errors

Changes & Enhancements in Applications and Business Analysis

Requirements analysis and documentation for maintenance activities in
terms of defect fixing and Enhancements

Performing the Service Desk function for assigned applications, acting
as the Single Point of Contact to the business users and for following
the incident and problem management processes.

Must be available to provide reliable 24 x 7 support.

Address Support issues and perform root cause analysis. 

Involved in migrating application to deploy from Jboss4 to Jboss7.

Testing Web services with SOAP UI

Involved in writing VU Gen scripts as part of BSM/BAC monitoring.

Involved in writing shell scripts for new jobs.

Involved in internal audits and QMS activities





Project Name	VAPDL (   HYPERLINK "http://www.qfund.net/" www.qfund.net 
)

Client	Check ‘N’ Go (   HYPERLINK "http://www.checkngo.com/"
www.checkngo.com   ), Axcess Financial

Organization 	Virinchi Technologies Ltd

Period (Duration)	November 2008 to June 2009

Tools/Components used
Struts,JBOSS,EJB,JSP,Servlet,JDBC,JNDI,Hibernate,XML(DOM,SAX),Web
Services

Project Description	Qfund is a comprehensive solution custom-built to
suit the business & regulatory requirements of organizations operating
in the short-term financial solution industry in the United States of
America. This entirely web-based product has proven implementations in
over 5000 stores in the geographies of USA and Canada. The product
encompasses almost all the segments of the short-term Financial Loan
industry. Qfund covers Payday Loan, ULOC, Check Cashing, Installment
Loan and many more products in a user-friendly application that
facilitates all transactions from borrower registration to reporting.
QFund is an integrated Loan processing store based application covering
the entire Payday loan company processes that covers payday Loan
processing, Installment Loan Processing, collections and court
procedures involved in a payday loan company. Major functionalities
other than Loan procedures include customer registration, setting up
locations and related configurations, setting up security groups, rules
and rule values, carrying out core transactions like advance / loan,
rollover, buyback, payments etc., risk assessment integrating with Third
party Risk Assessment agencies like Teletrack,Lexus Nexis,Veritec etc.,
cash management, employee maintenance, report Generation, etc.



Responsibilities	Performed low level design of the component/functional
area.

Involved in Development, Change request analysis, impact analysis, unit
testing of the software modules.

Developed JSP pages, Action Classes, DAO for the relative modules.

Involved in coding for Cash Management Module

Used JavaScript for client side validation

Involved in transaction management,receipts,reports generation

Interaction with client for business functionality

Developing the web pages in struts from design documents

Reviewing the code of other developers.

Implemented Check scanner functionality for CheckCashing

Migrated the application from struts1.0 to struts1.2





Project Name	QFUND

Client	Advance Payday (www.advancefinancial.biz)

Organization	Virinchi Technologies Ltd

Period (Duration)	June 2007 to November 2008

Tools/Components used
Struts,JBOSS,EJB,JSP,Servlet,JDBC,JNDI,XML(DOM,SAX),Web Services

Project Description	

Developed to address business requirements of short-term financial
solutions industry operating in the USA & Canadian markets, QFund is a
web-based application seamlessly integrating all the stores and
administrative office. The application facilitates various users to
perform variety of transactions through the lifecycle of a short-term
loan. The various transactions that are available in the application
include customer management, loan management, cash management, legal
affairs management, collections management etc. The solution developed
is a highly robust scalable and flexible solution which incorporates the
complex laws and their variations among the various states of the
country with a configurable business rules engine which governs
processing of various transactions within the application.

Responsibilities	Developed JSP pages, Action Classes, DAO for the
relative modules.

Coding, Unit Testing.

Involved in coding for Cash Management Module

Used JavaScript for client side validation

Involved in transaction management,receipts,reports generation





Project Name	CITI FINANCIAL INTERFACE (CFI)

Client	Citigroup

Organization 	Polaris Software Lab

Period (Duration)	Oct 2006 to May 2007

Operating System	Windows

Tools/Components used	Java, Struts, JFP, Eclipse3.1, Oracle, Weblogic8.1

Project Description	This project will build a common website platform
Description for CFI companies to allow consumers, brokers and dealers to
create loan applications. This website will also allow for the
maintenance of brokers, broker products, dealers and dealer plans. 
Website logon and authentication will be| accomplished by a
user-id/password combination processed by the infrastructure provided
with the JFP platform. 



Responsibilities	Developed GUI ,Coding , Unit Testing



.

