Krishna Vineela Adada

E-Mail:   HYPERLINK "mailto:takkellapati@yahoo.com"
vineela.adada@gmail.com 

Mobile:9985213244



Professional Summary

4+ years of experience in Information Technology in terms of Object
Oriented Design, Development, Deployment, Documentation and Maintenance
in a web based environment, Distributed n-tier architecture and Client
Server architecture.

Good domain knowledge in Banking and Manufacturing.

Specialized in Java / J2EE technologies like JSP, Servlets, JDBC Spring
framework and Webservices.

Work Experience in Scripting languages such as Javascript, HTML, CSS and
Jquery.

Work Experience includes designing and developing of object oriented
software.

Sound knowledge of developing applications based on architectures like
Spring Framework and MVC architecture.

Having experience in developing Agile methodologies and all stages of
SDLC.

Excellent communication & interpersonal skills with proven abilities in
resolving complex software issues.

Education

GITAM University, Visakhapatnam, India, Electronics and Communication
Engineering, 2005-2009.

Professional Organizations

Prokarma, Hyderabad, June 2014 – Till Date

Tata Consultancy Services, Hyderabad, Feb 2010 – June 2014	

Skills Profile

Technical

Skill Type	Skill Description

Programming Languages	JAVA/J2EE (JSP, SERVLETS, JDBC),WEBSERVICES

Database Technologies	PL/SQL

Scripting Language	JavaScript, HTML,CSS,JQUERY

Frameworks	SPRINGS

Web &Application Servers	Tomcat, Web Sphere ,JBOSS

Tools	Eclipse, Net Beans, RAD

Build 	Maven, ANT BUILD



Certifications

Done OCJP Certification. 

Done Foundation Certification in Financial Services. 

Done Payment Cards Certification under Banking and Financial Services
domain.

Done certification on MANUFACTURING CONCEPTS.



Professional Experience

S. No	Client Name / Project Name	From	To	Role	Location

1	Verizon – Weblogic Migration 	July 2014	Till Date	Senior Developer
Hyderabad / India

2	Chrysler – SIPM Validation Hub	April 2013	June  2014	Senior
Developer	Hyderabad / India

3	Chrysler – Login and Registration Web service	December 2012	March
2013	Developer	Hyderabad / India

4	Chrysler – VINRecall Canada	October 2012	December 2012	Developer
Hyderabad / India

5	Chrysler – Login and Registration API	August 2012	October 2012
Developer	Hyderabad / India

6	Chrysler – CCNA	June 2012	August 2012	Developer	Hyderabad / India

7	Amex – NGI Test Bed Tools	September 2010	December 2011	Developer
Hyderabad / India



Major Responsibilities handled in the last 4 years: 

Understanding the client functional requirements.

Communicating with the third party applications for Integration.

Preparation of HLD’s, LLD’s and Test plans. 

Mentor the team and perform the coding and unit testing on complex
programs to meeting the schedule.

Backup of project lead on updating the Handbooks.

Client interactions, Knowledge management and sharing.

Developing the code and UI(Html/css) and involved in unit testing

Supporting the testing team and updating the tracker to communicate to
the testing team.

Query log inferences, Issue and Risk log maintenance.

Krishna Vineela Adada		

