NAVEEN.B                                                          
E-mail: naveen.bandi21@gmail.com 

                                                                        
      Mobile: +91-9963811162

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY

.

Having 5 years of experience in IT industry in Software Analysis,
Design, Development, Deployment and Maintenance of Web and J2EE
applications

Experience in developing and deploying applications using Web Sphere,
Tomcat, Web Logic and JBoss.

Expert in Web Development using Java/J2EE technologies like JSP,
Servlets, JDBC.

Expertise in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)
including Requirements, Analysis, Design, implementation, integration,
testing, deployment and post development maintenance.

Experience using Front End Technologies such as HTML, JavaScript and CSS
for developing UI for the applications.

Experience in developing applications using three tier architectural
frameworks such as MVC (Model View Controller), STRUTS, SPRING framework
and Hibernate.

Experience in developing inter-operable Web Services and its related
technologies like SOAP, WSDL, UDDI, and XML related technologies/tools
such as JAXB with good understanding of JAX-WS, JAX-RS, JAX-RPC, AXIS
and CXF.

 Experience in using various configuration management tools like SVN,
CVS, ACCUREV and MAVEN.

Experience in using design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Business
Delegate, Data Transfer Object (DTO), and Data Access Object (DAO) in
the development of n-Tier distributed Enterprise Applications.

Proficient in J2EE technologies like spring, Hibernate, Ibatis,
Servlets, Jsp, Jdbc.

Proficient in various IDEs including My Eclipse, STS, RAD.

Excellent problem solving skills with a strong technical background and
good interpersonal skills

Excellent Logical & Analytical Abilities, Quick Learner and ready to
take challenges in a fast-paced environment

Working Experience on spring, Struts, Hibernate and Web services.

PROFESSIONAL WORK EXPERIENCE

Working as an Analyst in Verizon (VDSI India), Hyderabad, from JULY-2013
to till date.

Worked as a Senior Software Engineer in HCL Technologies, Chennai, from
MAY-2010 to JULY-2013.

ACHIEVMENTS

Won Livewire Award For CATI Project.

Won On The Spot Award For VISP Project.

EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATIONS

M.C.A From OSMANIYA UNIVERSITY with aggregate of 73%.

B.SC (M.P.C) From KAKATHYA UNIVERSITY with aggregate of 77%.

INTER (+12) From Excellent Junior College with aggregate of 76%.

10 TH from S V VIDYANIKETHAN with aggregate of 74%.

Core Competencies

Core/Business Technology	Java, J2ee, Web services, SQL/PLSQL, Hibernate,
Ibatis, Spring

Methodology	Agile, SDLC

Framework/Web 

Technology	 Hibernate STRUTS 1.x, JSP, Servlets, Java Design Patterns,
log4j, Japser Report  ,JSON

RDBMS	Oracle 10g & 11g

Application/Web Server	IBM Web Sphere Server, Oracle Web logic 11
g,Tomcat,Jboss

Operating Systems	Window 98/NT/XP, MS DOS,UNIX

IDE & Tools	IBM RSA/RAD/Eclipse, Net Beans,Edit Plus, SVN, AccuRev



PROJECT SUMMURY	

Project #1:

Title                                 :     VISP 

Client                               :     Verizon

Duration                           :    May’14-TillDate

Team                                 :   5

Role                                  :    Analyst

Environment                     :	 Jdk1.6, X Layer Frame work, RAD, 

                                              Web Sphere, Web Services,
Activity BPM, spring

Description:

	VISP Project is meant for allowing toll free data to the user.
Streaming of videos based on the campaign created by the vendor, user
can view the videos related to that campaign, with zero cost of their
data. the video data cost is charged against the vendor not the user
data pack.

Responsibilities:

Involved in creating the workflow for vendor on boarding. 

Involved In developing the code to interact with external system.

 Responsible for developing Get Enterprise changes to retrieve the on
boarded vendor information.

Project #2:

Title                                 :     USAGE RATING RECONCILATION 

Client                               :     Verizon

Duration                           :    Jan-2014-May2014

Team                                 :   1

Role                                  :    Analyst

Environment                     :	 Jdk1.6, X Layer Frame work, RAD, 

                                              Web
Sphere,WebServices,Unix.

Description:

            Usage rating re conciliation is for developing the usage of
tdr files .calculated the flow of data when it is rated by vision ,data
flow travel between different systems, error records and total usage
calculation.

Responsibilities:

Involved in creating the reports  for usage of the data.

Involved In developing the reports like
ScmInbound,ScmOutBound,ScmErrorSummarized,ScmErrorDetails,ScmDropped and
ScmKept reports.

 Responsible for developing dao and unix script to test the reports.

Project #3:

Title                                 :     EMS (Error Management
system)

Client                               :     Verizon

Duration                           :    Aug’13-Jan-2014

Team                                 :   10

Role                                  :    Analyst

Environment                    :     Jdk1.6, X Layer Frame work, RAD,
Web Sphere.

Description:

                             EMS system is used by Revenue assurance
group (NRDA) to manage / process the errored records generated by the
Verizon wireless data and data content services. ERR records are those
that do not pass the rating checks in SCMDATA billing system and hence,
are not billed resulting in lost revenue for Verizon wireless. So the
primary objective of EMS is to recover these ERR records, process it for
correction and recycle it back to mediation layer. Once corrected, these
records are eventually available under COSTED or UNCOSTED database.

Responsibilities:

Involved in analysis of Record Search use case. 

Involved In design of Edit and Save, Search Use Cases.

 Responsible for developing Populater Code Save ,Edit and Search Use
Cases

Project #4:

Title                                 :     FGB (First Gulf Bank
Business)

Client                               :      First Gulf Bank

Duration                           :      Feb ’12-July2013

Team                                 :     80

Role                                  :     J2EE Developer

Environment                    :     Jdk1.6, Jboss, spring 3.1,
Hibernate 3.6, Eclipse,          

                                               Oracle, WebService.

Description:

                          FGB intends to offer corporate banking
platform and services to its local and international customers. The
objective of this project is to develop and implement a scalable and
agile Transaction Banking Platform to local and multi-national corporate
customers and assist them in exploiting their resources and key
strengths by providing host of value added and customized features like
straight through processing of transactions, effective management of
funds, full integration of their existing platforms or accounting
packages.

The primary goal is to implement a standardized Corporate Banking with
standardized software to provide access to their customer and employees
by aligning to its business and strategy. Furthermore, the proposed
solution will also promote business enablement, business IT alignment,
and standardization; create reusable assets, and share common methods
for software development and Implementation. Consequently, the proposed
Solution will make IT cheaper and more strategic as well as more
responsive.    

Account Services

User Admin

Forex

Payments

Responsibilities:

Involved in analysis of account services use case. 

Involved In design of Core Framework through Spring Aop.

Involved in handling of transaction in useradmin module.

 Responsible for developing Dao code for account services

 Involved in development batch application through spring batch

 Involved in development web services through cxf.

Project #5:

Title                                 :     CADM (Client Administration
Management System)

Client                               :      Standard Chartered Bank

Duration                           :      Aug ’11-Jan ‘12

Team                                 :     8

Role                                  :     J2EE Developer

Environment                     :     Jdk1.5, XFW, Tomcat, IBatis,
Eclipse, Oracle.

Description:

The purpose of this project is to build a simplified, work-flow based
customer on-boarding and administration system (CADM) for access by
multiple teams within the bank and customer administrators, thereby
replacing the existing CBS application. The new application will be
capable of on-boarding new customers onto Straight2Bank and also cater
to amendment of the customer profiles during BAU. The CADM application
will also have capability to perform customer administration in a
centralized or de-centralized operating model thereby giving the ability
to reduce the turn-around time for these administration activities.

              The various modules in the project are

Group

Company

Accounts

Authorization Matrix

Profiles

Users

Users Group

Utilities

Responsibilities:

Involved in analyzing the existing CBS application and requirement
gathering. 

 Involved in the preparation of Technical Specification.

 Involved in development of components in XFW framework,

 Involved in development and mapping of Xmls, Java and Ibatis.

Project #6

Title                                 :     CATI (Corporate Action
Transaction Initiation)

Client                               :      Standard Chartered Bank

Duration                           :      Jun ’10-Aug ‘11

Team                                 :     8

Role                                  :     J2EE Developer

Environment                     :     Jdk1.5, XFW, Tomcat, IBatis,
Eclipse, Oracle.

Description:

Any event that brings a material change to a company and affects its
share-holders is known as a Corporate Action. It affects both
Bond-holders and Share-holders of the Company. Dividend
Disbursement/Payment, Mergers, Acquisitions, Rights Issue and Proxy
Voting are some examples of Corporate Actions. One of the prime
responsibilities for the Custodian is to notify their customers on any
Corporate Action and then process the responses for the CA provided by
the customers.

Currently, the Securities Services module within Straight2Bank provides
the customers with options to both view the various Corporate Actions
and also to provide their instructions for the CA to the Bank. But, the
instructions that are provided by the customers through the
Straight2Bank channel are currently not processed straight-through and
require manual intervention. This is because, the instructions are sent
as “Free format text” to the Back-office. 

This project (Corporate Actions – TI) once live, would enable the
Straight through processing of all CA response instructions that are
sent by the customer through Straight2Bank. This STP feature would
however be limited to only those responses that are routed to CAPE. The
responses that go to NCS would still be sent as “Free format text”
and would still be processed manually.

The various modules in the project are

Homepage

Proxy Response

Other CA Response

Unsolicited Response, Advance Search.

Responsibilities:

Involved in analyzing the requirements. 

Involved in the implementation of proxy response Module.

Involved in development of xmls, java and Ibatis.

    

  Date:		              

  Place:                                                                
                        (NAVEEN.B)

                                  

