Kushagra Kapoor
Email-Id: kushagra.kapoor@yahoo.com
Mobile: +918588899280

PR O FE S S I O NA L SU M MA R Y







Currently working as a Senior Software Developer at MakeMyTrip.
3 years of hands-on experience in designing and developing Java/J2EE applications.
Strong in Concepts (Object Oriented Design, Coding Standards and Best Practices)
Experience in building SOAP & REST services.
Proficiency in Core Java, Data Structures, Algorithms and in frameworks like Hibernate, Spring &
Struts.
Excellent Interpersonal and Communication Skills.

TEC HN I C A L S U M MA R Y
Technologies

Core Java, Spring 3.0, Struts 2.0, Apache CXF, SOAP & REST
Services, Hibernate, MYSQL

Development IDE

Eclipse

Tools

Clarify CRM, MYSQL Workbench, Putty, BIRT, SOAP UI, Maven, JIRA,
GIT, Bugzilla, FireBug

Web Development

Native JavaScript, JSP, Servlet, Ajax

Web Servers

Apache tomcat.

W OR K EX PE R I E NC E
Makemytrip.com
Senior Software Developer-I

Gurgaon, IN
August 25, 2014 – Present

Monolithic to Micro services
MakeMyTrip extranet’s legacy code and architecture being moved to Micro service’s architecture. The
legacy monolithic architecture overloaded the web container and was difficult for new developer to
understand. To scale the application, reducing large applications deployment risks and making IDE faster
the architecture is moved to Micro services.
Hotel Sequencing
This utility allows the BD Managers to directly update the sequence of the hotels that are shown on the
MakeMyTrip’s. Thorough this utility the managers can sequence the sponsored hotels which pay to
MakeMyTrip to come above in the listing and the promoted hotels which are observed by the managers to
be high on sale.
Business Intelligence
Developed an end to end utility that generates monthly financial reports for all the hotels associated with
MakeMyTrip & sends it to the respective hotels on first day of every month. This project plays a crucial role

by letting hoteliers know their financial performance with MakeMyTrip in the past months, which helps the
hoteliers in improving their business strategies.
Hotel Double Check
Firstly was called Marriot Double Check, for double checking availability with the hotels before booking to
reduce booking failures. Marriot is among the Gold class hotels associated with MakeMyTrip which feed
their inventory & rates to MMT in a gap of 4-5 hours twice daily. Marriot wants the booking request made
to them must succeed, so to wave off the booking failure in case of unavailable inventory just before
booking we make a call to China Online(third party handling integration b/w Marriot & MMT). As per their
response booking is further proceeded. Initially this service was created for Marriot but now has been
exposed to multiple Gold class hotels.
Redis Info Utility
This utility makes access to Redis very handy through GUI. Redis being one of the cache’s responsible for
fast response of MMT site, the data in it is very sensitive and frequently used. So for saving the effort to
reach Redis server and fire commands every time to access the data in it, this application was developed.
This application basically provides all the features like key, server info, pattern, TTL which makes hit to
Redis on click of a button and gets all the required information.
Wipro Technologies
Software Engineer

Gurgaon, IN
11th June, 2012 – 14th Aug, 2014

COP(Clarify Online Portal)-Subcase
Wipro’s client Orange Business Services used the Amdocs Clarify CRM tool whose maintenance cost was
very high. My role was to replicate the whole Subcase functionality into a web module. It included various
feature like New Subcase Creation, Edit Subcase, Dispatch Subcase, Change Subcase Status, Log Notes,
Close Subcase and tons of VB validations were converted into java. Being one of the biggest modules and
also a very crucial one, its success was highly appreciated from Wipro as well as client.
Pulse-AMS
PULSE project involved in building an end to end application for internet gambling. The system proposed
provides Registration, Validation, Card Management, Deposit, Refund, Withdrawal and Account
Administration. My role was to work on iText for report generation of transactions for all modules of the
project, fixing the security issues (majorly SQL injection) that were reported for modules like Advice Note,
Inbound & Outbound, Reports, Segregation of Funds.

OT H ER A C HI E V EM EN TS



Was awarded “Feather in my Cap” in OBS, for excellent contribution in the project.
Got recognition for BI reporting for its high business importance.

ED UC A TI ON


B-TECH in Computer Science from Amity University, Noida with 7.73 C.G.P.A



H.S.S.C from St Don Bosco School, Lakhimpur Kheri(UP) with 76.4%



S.S.C from St Don Bosco School, Lakhimpur Kheri(UP) with 77%



Three months internal training on Core Java and J2EE in Wipro Technologies, Pune



Three months industrial training in Web Development in Advance JAVA in HCL, Noida

PER S ON A L D E T A I L S


Date of Birth

:

14th May 1990



Gender

:

Male



Father Name

:

Rajendra Kumar Kapoor



Nationality

:

INDIAN



Languages Known

:

Hindi & English



Hobbies

:

Travelling & Playing Cricket

Declaration
I Kushagra Kapoor hereby declare that the information given above in My Profile is true and correct to the best
of my knowledge.

