	

						Syed Rahmath

					syedrahmath59@gmail.com,9030403405

	Experience summary

4.2 years of IT experience in Software Development with proficiency in
developing Enterprise-based and Web-based applications using Java and
J2EE technologies.

Proficient in using Object Oriented Programming (OOP) for building
n-tier architecture systems with hands on development expertise in
front-end UI layer, application layer including middleware, core
business frameworks and back-end database layer integration.

Experience in implementing the Server side Components using Spring,
Spring MVC and RESTFULL Web services.

Experience with Object/Relational Mapping tools like Hibernate, JPA for
data persistence.

Experience in implementing the REST API using Apache CXF and Jersey.

Experience in implementing the unit test cases using Junit and MOCKITO
Framework.

Having experience in Security practice services Multi-Factor
Authentication and Fraud Management.

Web application development using – HTML, Java Script, JSP, Servlets
in conjunction with MySQL and Oracle.

Experience in deploying, configuring, maintaining the application on
Application Server Tomcat, JBoss and Apache Web Server.

Strong debugging with excellent understanding of system development
methodologies, techniques and tools. 

Experience in Design, Modeling, J2EE Design Patterns and Object Oriented
software development patterns.

Employment Details:

Currently working as Software Engineer for Innominds Software Pvt
Limited since July 2011.

Technical Skills

Languages & Technologies		: Core Java, Spring3, Hibernate, JDBC,
Servlets, JSP.

Integrated Development Environments	: Ecplise, SpringSource Tool Suite.

Test frameworks			: Junit,Mockito.

Web Technologies			: HTML, JavaScript, AJAX.

Web Services				: RestFul WebServices.

Servers 				: Apache Tomcat6,JBoss 5.0.1.

Build Tools  				: Maven.

Repository Tools			: SVN,GIT.

DataBases				: Oracle, Postgres, MYSQL.

Educational Qualifications

M.Tech(CSE) from JNTU Hyderabad in 2011.

B.Tech(CSIT) from JNTU Hyderabad in 2006.

	

Project 1: GINA 2Factor Authentication

Duration: Dec 2014 – Till Date

Project Description:

	GINA 2Factor Authentication is a customized solution for windows
default authentication mechanisum.the customized solution authenticates
the users with 2 factors one is Active Directory credentials and ArcotID
credentials. The solution is implemented and integrated with 3
components 1.Active Directory 2.Authminder Server and 3.IBM Identity
Management Server. The credential mechanism consists of Password
Authentication, One Time Password (OTP) and Questions and Answers.

Roles and Responsibilities:

Implemented the Rest API service to fetch and validate the Questions and
Answers and password authentication.

Implemented the Rest API for RESET Password and Roaming functionality.

Configured the project environment to use Spring3, Hibernate with JPA,
and Apache CXF Restful Services.

Implemented the Test Cases to test the api’s using Junit and Mockito
Framework.

Implemented and configured JACOCO for Code Coverage.

Implemented the UI Interfaces with HTML and JavaScript.

Implemented java apis to fetch the data from Active Directory,
Authminder server.

	 

Environments: Java6, Spring3, Hibernate with JPA, Maven, Tomcat7, MySQL
JavaScript, HTML, ITIM Server,Authminder Server.

Project 2 : MEM Administration Console

Duration : Jan 2014 – November 2014

Project Description:

		

		The Mobile Email Management Administration Console is a Web
browser-based, graphical user interface and is accessible from any
supported Web browser with network access to the Administration Server.
This console enables you to manage all deployed MEM instances, where an
instance represents a MEM Server that is available on a specified port.
Users can use the Administration Console to configure MEM, to set up
users and administrative roles, and perform other administrative
operations and configuration tasks. 

Mobile Email Management (MEM) offers comprehensive email security for
your on-the-go mobile users in a bring your own device environment. It
combines policy enforcement and classification to deliver end-to-end,
data-centric security while maintaining a native email user experience.

Roles and Responsibilities:

Implemented the Jersey RESTFULL WEB Service api's for Reporting Module.

Implemented the server side components using Java, Spring3.x.

Implemented the front end UI components using AngularJS Framework and
Javascript.

Implemented the Controllers and Services based on functional requirments
using AngularJS and coffe script.

Involved in deploying the build in different evnironments.

Environments: Java6, Spring3, Maven, Hibernate, JUnit, Tomcat7, Oracle,
MeM, components, AngularJS, Javascript.

 

Project 3 : Accelerator

Duration: Oct 2013 – Dec 2014

Project Description:

	

		Accelerator solution is a customized user friendly work-flow solution
for setting up the secondary level step-up authentication for the
organizations using internet banking. Once the user is successfully
validated then the user will navigated to the main application.

		The solution contains two components one is workflow designer and
other is Accelerator. In accelerator solution, the user is expected to
draw a solution workflow by following the User Guide, submit the
diagram, customize the widget preferences and configure the target
environment. The accelerator solution outcomes will be available in the
solution artifacts tab with the files necessary for Arcot solution
deployment.

		User interface widget can be easily plugged into the required page of
the application to have the strong authentication within that. The
widget is an interface through which all the interaction with Arcot
System happens, using the Arcot SDK, to verify the user credentials for
secondary level of authentication.

	Roles and Responsibilities:

		

Implemented the RESTFUL WEB Service API's using AuthMinder SDK for
ArcotID, OTP, QNA.

Implemented the ArcotID Roaming and Non-Roaming identification using
Javascript Arcot Client.

Implemented the UI Interfaces required for Enrollment and Authentication
process.

Implemented the Front End Service call using Ajax which communicates to
the Accelerator for sending and receiving the Request and Response.

Used JSON as a data transfer between Widget and Accelerator Service.

Environments: Authminder 7.1, Tomcat 7, Java1.6, Spring Rest, MSSQL
2008, HTML, JavaScript and Ajax.

Project 4	: Taxware LLC

Duration	: Apirl 2013 – Sep 2013

Project Description:

	

		Taxware is the leading provider of automated-transaction tax
solutions, with more than 30 years of experience in the transaction tax
compliance business. Taxware has the sales, use and value-added tax
solutions you need to help get it right. Taxware brings accuracy and
compliance to your ERP system, custom-billing application or web store.

Taxware uses Siteminder for Web Access Management, Authminder for
Multifactor Authentication and CA IDM for users Identity and Roles. The
integration between the Siteminder and Authminder is handled by an Arcot
Adapter component. We have implemented the Customized Security Solutions
by integrating the Siteminder, IDM and Authminder components.

Roles and Responsibilities:

Installation and configuration of Authminder7.1 and Arcot Adapter 2.2.9
on Windows and Linux Environments.

Customization of Arcot Adaptor functionality with respect to Taxware
requirements.

Implementation of Authminder web service API’s for Synchronization of
Password and Security Questions & Answers between Authminder and CA IDM.

Customization of UI Language on Arcot Adapoter UI with respect to
Taxware.

Configured the SSL on Servers.

Implemented the custom business logic using ArrayList,Hashmap,Hashset
and other collectios classes.

Environments: Authminder 7.1, Arcot Adapter 2.2.9, JBoss5. 0.1, Java1.6,
CA, Directory, MSSQL2008, Siteminder PolicyServer 12.5cr02, CA IDM
12.6.1.

Project 5	: Cetera MFA.

Duration 	: Nov 2012 – March 2013

Project Description: 

Cetera Financial is a broker-dealer services provider for independent
financial professionals 	and financial institutions, by using
independently managed broker-dealers. Cetera provides industry and
market insights, technology, resources and solutions needed in helping
the clients pursue their financial goals.

Cetera application uses  CA Siteminder For handling Web Access
Management and  CA Authminder For handling the multi-factor
authentication implementation. The integration between the two products
is handled by an Arcot Adapter component. Adapter consists of multiple
sub-components which can be integrated into siteminder as well as Arcot.

The existing Cetera MFA implementation is such that it uses Arcot
database as both user store and authentication store for handling
Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA). The new implementation separates
both, and migrates the User Store to CA Directory. User Migration is
done in the background, on the fly without changing the existing User
Experience. Users will not be aware of the migration process. 

Roles and Responsibilities:

Involved in creating the web service API’s for implementing the
Multi-Factor Authentication.

Involved in installation and configuration of Arcot Webfort 6.2 on
development environment.

Configuration of Arcot Adapter and multifactor authentication to the
application.

Understanding the business logic, designing and implementation of the
solution as per the requirements.

Implementation of Arcot Webfort APIs and providing custom
functionalities according to the requirements.

Configuring/creating custom authentication profiles/policies for various
MFA implementations like ArcotID, QnA, OTP etc., on Arcot Webfort using
Arcot administration console.

  	

Environment: JDK1.5,Tomcat 6s, WF and RF SDK, Oracle
11g,JSP,JavaScripts,Siteminder Web Agent v12.0, Siteminder Policy Server
v12.5,.

Project 6		: Woovite

Duration		: August 2011 – Oct 2012

Project Description:	

Woovite is an Online Event Management service portal where Woovite is an
interface between Event Host and the Event Attendees (Guests) .Event
Host uses Woovite to publish, organize the Event and send invitation to
their Friends. Woovite provides the services which will be helpful for
event host to publish their free and payable events.

Responsibilities:

Involved in developing server side components using Java, JSON, Restful
web services.

Implemented the business component for sending bulk invitation using
Multi-Threading.

Implemented the business components using Hashmap, HashSet,ArrayList and
collections.

Involved in writing the server side components which interacts with
social networking sites.

Involved in implementing and integration the Facebook login API.

Involved in implementing the WebService APIs using Restful web services.

Involved in creation of Admin Portal Reports using BIRT tools.

Technologies	: Java 1.5, Jersey Rest, Servlets, JSP, Spring.

Database	: Postgres

Personal Details

	  DATE \@"M\/D\/YYYY"  11/4/2015 	

Printed on:   DATE \@"M\/D\/YYYY"  11/4/2015                            
           -Resume-                                                     
   Page   PAGE  1  of   NUMPAGES \*Arabic  5 

