Swami L

Email:   HYPERLINK "mailto:swami.lingala80@gmail.com" 
swami.lingala80@gmail.com  , Phone: +91-9550345629

Professional Summary 

6.8-years of experience in developing Web based, Internet/Intranet
Applications using Java and J2EE Technologies.

Experience in J2EE application development using Servlets, Jsp and EJB.

Experience in using Struts, JSF and Hibernate.

Experience in using IBM Portlets, Chordiant.

Experience in Web-Services.

Experience in using various web/application servers like Apache Tomcat, 

BEA Web Logic, WebSphere, WebSphere portal server.

Good Exposure in Health Insurance, Finance and banking domain.

Experience in Production support.

Strong programming skills with good understanding of Java language.

Exceptional ability to learn new technologies and to deliver outputs in
short deadlines.

Educational Qualification

MCA from Osmania University.

Experience

      

Working as a “Senior Software Engineer” at Kony IT Services Pvt Ltd,
Hyderabad from August 2013 to Till Date.

Worked as a “Senior Software Engineer” at CGI Information Systems,
Hyderabad from April 2010 to August 2013.

Worked as a “Software Engineer” at Larsen & Toubro Infotech Ltd,
Mumbai from December 2007 to March 2010.

Technical Skills

Language	 Java

J2EE Technologies	Jdbc, Servlets, Jsp, EJB

Framework	Struts, JSF and Hibernate

Web Technologies	HTML, JavaScript, xml

Web/Application Server		Tomcat, weblogic, WebSphere and WebSphere portal
server  

IDE	RSA, WSAD, RAD and Eclipse

Databases	Oracle, DB2

Operating System	Windows 8/ XP /2000

Configuration Tools	Clear case, VSS, SVN



Certification:

                    PAHM (Professional Academy for Healthcare
Management)

Project Details:

  Project  # 1	TMB Retail Banking

Client	TMB

Company	Kony IT Services PVT LTD

Duration	Sep 2013 – till date

Role	Developer



Responsibilities	    

Involved in analysis of user requirements.

Involved in Coding.

Involved in Defect fixing.

Involved in CR.

Involved in unit testing

Involved in preparation of  UTC and UTR documents



Technology	Java, Servlets, JavaScript, JSON, Eclipse and Tomcat Server.

Description	The goal of the project is to develop a Mobile and desktop
web application for TMB (Thailand Military Bank) by using KonyIDE.
Developed the banking applications for Mobiles multiple devices like
Android and  iPhone, Desktop web and SPA(Single Page Application)





  Project  # 2	Image Plus

Client	CIGNA 

Company	CGI

Duration	July 2012 – till date

Role	Developer



Responsibilities	

Involved in Analysis of ADS and preparation of PGS documents for SRs and
Migration projects.

Involved in Coding.

Involved in unit testing.

Involved in preparation of DOU, UTC and UTR documents

Involved in Estimates

Involved in Reviews

Involved in Production support



Technology	Java, Struts, JSP, DB2, WSAD, UNIX 

Description	Image plus is a desktop application used by the claim
services operations of Cigna Healthcare for logical work distribution
and inventory management (similar to work flow engine). iTrack uses RBAC
(Role Based Access Control) mechanism to authenticate users and restrict
the functions that can be performed by them. It comprises of batch and
online applications.



.	

Project  # 3	Oneview

Client	CIGNA 

Company	CGI

Duration	April 2010- June 2012

Role	Developer



Responsibilities	

Involved in Analysis, Design and development of the Appeals, CNR CHU
Correspondence. 

Involved in development of Correspondence Interim Solution

Involved in development of Manage Workgroups (Added new attribute
PrimaryBusinessUnit).

Involved in development of Manage Agents.

Involved in development of adding new grid for displaying correspondence
recipient details.

Involved in development of the Routing Rules and Correspondence Alerts
in Admin Portlet.

Involved in 5010 project

Involved in Bug fixing.

Involved in unit testing.

Involved in preparation of UTC and UTR



Technology	Java, JSF, Portlets, Servlets, JSP, Hibernate, AJAX, JSON,
WebServices, DB2, Web sphere, Portal Server, RSA. 

Description	The goal of the project is to deliver a desktop application
for CIGNA customer service Agents (CSAS) to deploy across multiple lines
of business. Where lines of business Medical, Dental, CBH (Cigna
Behaviour Health) and Pharmacy. The primary business need for Oneview is
improving the efficiency and effectiveness of CIGNA call center this
will accomplish through updating and improving the desktop technology.





Project  # 4	Sungard Kiodex Risk Work Bench

Client	L & T Treasury

Company	L&T Infotech

Duration	February 2008 – March 2010

Role	Involved in analysis of user requirements.

Involved in developing of front-end application.

Involved in bug fixing

Preparation of the documentation.

Code review.

Involved in unit testing.



Technology	Java, Jsp, Struts,EJB, Oracle, Eclipse, Tomcat  

Description	Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (L&T), a US$ 4 Billion Conglomerate, is
a leader in core sectors of the economy and is emerging as a major
global player in executing turnkey projects. The Central Treasury Dept.
of L&T, one of the largest corporate Treasuries, is responsible for
funding requirements and doing risk management for L&T. L&T Treasury is
currently using SAP CFM Module for their trading and back office
operations. As part of Treasury's initiatives, they have identified
Sungard Kiodex, as a potential system to address their International as
well as domestic commodities



                                                                        
                                                                 

