Springs:4 year & current

 Hibernate:3.5 year

Webservices:REST and current

Java: 7.5 year

UML: worked

Design : worked

Application server: tomcat/weblogic/eclipse/netbeans

Build tools: maven

My sql/oracle

Sreekanth Yannam

Java, J2EE, Spring, Apigee, WSO2 Middleware, JPA, Hibernate, REST,
Oracle, Agile

   HYPERLINK "mailto:sreekanth.yannam@gmail.com"
sreekanth.yannam@gmail.com    HYPERLINK
"https://in.linkedin.com/in/syannam" LinkedIn  

Objective

Looking for a senior application developer/lead position where I can
utilize my extensive experience and skills in architecting, designing,
and developing java, middleware and related technology applications.

My key strengths include systems analysis & design, business process
rationalisation, multi-tier architecture using Java/J2ee, Strong
server/client side experience, excellent code-testing ability and
effective release management. 

Profile

7.5+ years of experience developing full lifecycle applications for
reputed organizations like ProKarma, TOSHIBA, Nisum, Verus solutions 	.

Sound technical skills in architecture, design, development, testing and
releases of Java, JEE, JSP, servlets, Spring, Hibernate/jpa, struts 2,
REST, web services security, OAuth2, SAML2, SSO, JMS, UML, Oracle, DB2,
Ajax, design patterns, Weblogic, Jboss and Tomcat.

Worked on end-to-end projects in e-commerce, telecommunication and
knowledge services.  My applications include high volume and high
availability public facing web applications, e-commerce applications and
REST/SOA based service applications.

Extensive experience using agile methodologies like scrum, TDD/BDD, pair
programming, and continuous integration (Hudson/Jenkins).

Experience of leading teams, mentoring junior members, and monitoring
off-shore teams. Strong client facing, communication, analytical and
problem solving skills.

Won several performance awards and received appreciations for quality of
work, and problem solving.

Significant contribution in Defects Prevention activities, trend
analysis, root-cause analysis (Mercury Quality Centre), Internal Quality
Assurance and Software Configuration Manager Activities.

Ability to learn new Technologies, Frameworks and understand Business
requirements in quick time.

Ability to liaise effectively with all levels within organization across
geographic business units and manage relationships with key stakeholders
within business and suppliers.

Proven background of leading team in stressful, deadline-oriented
environments.

Ability to take independent responsibilities as well as to contribute as
a team member

Education

MCA passed in 2007 from Andhra University with 71%.

BSc passed in 2003 from Nagarjuna University with 53%.

Intermediate passed in 2000 with 75%.

SSC passed in 1998 with 72%.

Experience Summary

Skills	Expertise	Years of Experience	Last Worked

Technology: Java 1.6/1.7, JEE 5, JSP, Servlet, Java Beans, JDBC, Spring
3.x, Spring MVC, Spring Integration, Spring Security, OAuth2, SAML2,
SSO, JPA, Hibernate, Struts 2, multithreading, XML, XSL, JMS, JUnit,
Selenium, Mockito, AJAX (Jquery), JSON, HTML5, JavaScript, CSS, Rest web
services, SLF4J, Quartz Job scheduler, ZKoss, Windows, Unix, Shell
script, Linux and Android.	Strong	7+	Till Date

 

Middleware: WSO2 Products hands-on: API Manager, Enterprise Service Bus
(ESB), ESB Mediation, Identity Server, Business Activity Monitor 	Strong
1	Till Date

RDBMS : Oracle, DB2, SQL, PLSQL, MySql, PostgreSQL, Database Design
Strong	4+	Till Date

Systems Integration, SOA, Enterprise Integration Patterns, REST, J2EE
connector architecture, JMS, Apache ActiveMQ, Web Services(SOAP/REST),
Jenkins, Hudson, Continuous Integration	Strong	3+	Till Date

Architecture and Design: Design Patterns, Architecture, rational Rose,
Enterprise Architect, Visio, UML, Database Design	Strong	4	Till Date

Development Tools: Eclipse, Net beans, Maven, Ant, CVS, SVN, GitHub,
JBoss, Weblogic, Tomcat.	Good	7	Till Date

 

Experience (reverse chrono order)

1. T-Mobile, USA. (Dec. 14 – Till date)

Project Name		Apigee

Business Area		SOA Apigee Middleware

Software	 Java 1.7, REST Web Services, Apigee, XSLT, Eclipse, Maven,
Accurev.

Project Methodology	Agile, Test driven development, continuous
integration.

Description	The scope of the project is to verify the migration has any
impact on the services. There are 144 services that are being migrated
from Jboss to FSW versions. And also from JDK 1.6 to JDK 1.7.From the
Quality standpoint we need to check the migration has not impacted any
of the services. Need to verify all the services are in place and
working as expected. The log files generated needs to be compared with
the legacy ones and there shouldn’t be any discrepancies. The messages
should be properly posted to the queues. Deployments are being done
using war files instead of ear files. Publish and Subscribe Messaging is
being used instead of Point to Point messaging

Role		I have been involved in the SOA based architecture, POCs, design
and development of several key components in middleware.

Achievements              	Achieved the smooth integration between front
end and backend layers using robust secured middleware.

2. GORDMANS, USA. (Oct. 14 – Dec. 14)

Project Name		Jboss FSW upgrade

Business Area		SOA Jboss FSW Middleware

Software	 Java 1.7, Spring 3.0 MVC, REST Web Services, ActiveMQ, Jboss
Fuse, Eclipse, Maven, Serena.

Project Methodology	Agile, Test driven development, continuous
integration.

Description	The scope of the project is to verify the migration has any
impact on the services. There are 144 services that are being migrated
from Jboss to FSW versions. And also from JDK 1.6 to JDK 1.7.From the
Quality standpoint we need to check the migration has not impacted any
of the services. Need to verify all the services are in place and
working as expected. The log files generated needs to be compared with
the legacy ones and there shouldn’t be any discrepancies. The messages
should be properly posted to the queues. Deployments are being done
using war files instead of ear files. Publish and Subscribe Messaging is
being used instead of Point to Point messaging

Role		I have been involved in the SOA based architecture, POCs, design
and development of several key components in middleware.

Achievements              	Achieved the smooth integration between front
end and backend layers using robust secured middleware.

3. TOSHIBA Telecommunications Research Laboratory, UK. (Mar. 14 – Oct.
14)

Project Name		IceWater (ICT Solutions for Efficient Water Resources
Management)

Business Area		SOA WSO2 Middleware Research / Water management research,
Europe

Software	Java 1.7, JSP, HTML5, Spring 3.0 (MVC, spring security), WSO2
API Manager, ESB, Identity Server, Governance Registry, Business
Activity Monitor, Complex Event Processor, XML,SAX/DOM parsing, WaterML,
REST Web Services, Oauth2 Security, Single Sign On (SSO) IDP, SAML2,
MySql Server, Tomcat, Eclipse, Maven, GitHub, Linux Ubuntu.

Project Methodology	Agile, Test driven development, BDD, continuous
integration.

Description	Toshiba Research Europe Limited Telecommunications Research
Laboratory (TRL), the European subsidiary of the Company (Location:
Bristol, UK) conducting research within Information and Communications
Technology (ICT), is a participant in the successful bid to demonstrate
the potential for innovative efficiency savings within water supply
systems. The overall aim is for significant efficiency savings and will
be achieved through reduction in leakage and energy consumption enabled
though advanced demand management and operation and maintenance decision
support systems

Role		I have been involved in the SOA based WSO2 middleware trainings,
prototypes, architecture, POCs, design and development of several key
components in middleware, front-end Jquery, JSP, REST, Spring and
integration between back end adapters. Involved in overall security of
the modules (Middleware, front-end, REST Web Services) in the project by
using Oauth2 security.

Achievements              	Achieved single sign on, security for
different front end web-applications, achieved the smooth integration
between front end DSS modules and backend layers using robust secured
middleware, leak detection and energy usage graphs using Business
Activity Monitor. Was able to demonstrate the cost benefits and
significant efficiency savings using this innovative solution.

4. MACYS, USA (May. 12 – Feb 14)

Project Names		MyOffers

Business Area		e-commerce - Daily deals page on macys.com
re-architecture

Software	Java 1.6, Spring 3.5, Jersey Rest web services, JUnit and
Selenium test cases, DB2 database, SpringDM server, Eclipse, Maven,
Jenkins

Project Methodology	Agile-Scrum, Test driven development, BDD,
Continuous integration.

Description	The My Offers page having the promotions, coupons, banners.
We can also share the promotion through the site and the coupon can be
applied at store. The promotions and coupons can be shared to friends
through an email and these also displayed based on sorting order.

Role		I have been involved in the prototypes, architecture, POCs, design
and development of several key components, and managing user
stories/tasks involving java, REST, spring (core, mvc).Continuous
integration/deployments using Jenkins.

Achievements              Shaped the projects from scratch (from both
solution and technology perspective). Achieved extremely low defects in
the initial phases of all projects. Established standards and process
practices for the team. Helped the team achieve operational excellence.
Performed role of Release Manager and Testing coordinator.

5. MACYS, USA (Nov. 11 – May 12)

Project Name		Flexible Templates

Business Area		e-commerce

Software	Java 1.6, Spring 3.0, YUI, Json, Ajax, REST, Spring MVC, DB2,
jetty/jboss, i-Report, eclipse, Maven, Hudson

Project Methodology	Agile-scrum, Test driven development, BDD,
continuous integration.

Description	The Goal of Flexible Templates is to increase conversion
with new features such as Creation of Merchandising Widgets and PDP Ads.
Increase conversions, driven by exposing customers to top rated
products, best sellers & rich content. Promote more products to appeal
to customers shopping with different needs. Allow business to create and
update product promotions more frequently for a fresh customer
experience. Create an engaging and interactive shopping experience for
customers.

Role	Worked as a technical & feature lead on this project.I have been
involved in the prototypes, architecture, design and development of
several key frameworks, components and user stories involving java, jsp,
YUI, Ajax REST, spring(core, mvc), and TDD JUnit, Selenium Test cases
and BDD Jasmine test cases. Designed and implemented jasper reports for
producing PDF reports.

Achievements  	Shaped the project from scratch (from both solution and
technology perspective).Established standards and process practices for
the team. Helped the team achieve operational excellence. Played a key
role in delivering the product on time and with very high quality.

6. MACYS, USA (Jan. 11 – Oct. 11)

Project Name		DyCES Recommendations

Business Area		e-commerce

Software	Java 1.6, JAVA/J2EE, Spring MVC, JUnit, DB2, JBoss application
server, eclipse, Maven, Hudson

Project Methodology	Agile-scrum, Test driven development, BDD,
continuous integration.

Description	Most important feature of Macys is DyCES (Dynamic Customer
Experience System). To keep learning customer interests from his actions
on the website and recommend products for sale that are more relevant to
him based upon business rules and predictive models. It uses
Recommendation Service and Real Time Decision Engine (RTD) and Real Time
Optimization (RTO) to provide recommendations to user. User can select
the recommendations and user can Click, Add to Bag and Sale the
recommended items. The user actions will be captured in RTD DB. Based on
user actions, it will show recommendations by considering his visitor
id, customer id and zip code information.

Role		Worked as a technical & feature lead on this project. I have been
involved in the design and development of several key components and
user stories involving java, REST, spring, and hibernate. Fixed many
critical or blocking issues from field or system test and making sure to
give the RCA, workarounds and final solutions

Achievements              Shown high productivity and quality in the
design and development of several key components.  Helped reduce the
build cycle by 35%. Introduced Selenium based integration tests for
better unit testing and productivity. Quickly researched and
incorporated external tools. Recommended and helped several
architectural improvements. Attended ‘Problem Analysis’ professional
training for support purposes.

7. City Cell, Bangladesh (Mar. 09 – Dec. 10)

Project Name		My Wallet

Business Area		Admin Roles and rights access to track logs

Software	Java 1.5, Struts 2, Hibernate 3.0,Maven Build, ExtJS,
JavaScript, JSTL,CSS,AJAX, Weblogic 9.x, IBM DB2, MS Visio, Unix

Project Methodology	Agile-Scrum, Test driven development, pair
programming and continuous integration using Jenkins.

Description	M-wallet system is the effort to enable the world to bank
virtually and to use single system to make payments, savings account,
buying airtime etc. with or no operating fees. The whole idea of the
virtual account is to provide a hassle free accounting system where
subscriber need not run for banks or ATM. He or she can just walk into a
super market, without worrying whether the person have any cash or card
in pocket. Client can buy airtime or transfer funds with your fingertips
using his cell phone. The different access mediums like USSD, SMS, OTA
and Web enable the customers to utilize the services provided by the
system. All actors listed in this document will have an M-wallet. All
user interfaces through every access medium (Web, STK, SMS, USSD menu)
will have the ability to select the appropriate account/M wallet. The
access medium will be provided as per the requirement of operator.

Role		Worked as a technical lead on this project. Involved in
requirements, technology selection, prototyping, database design, data
modelling, estimation. Developed frameworks and components for this
green field project. Involved in monitoring delivery from an off shore
vendor. Established operations processes. Created various components
using Struts 2, hibernate, ExtJS etc.

Achievements             Established software development processes
modelled around scrum, test driven development and  

                                       pair programming. Focussed
extensively on operational excellence and productivity improvement.

             Introduced tools and techniques which helped improve
developer productivity and reduce the project 

                                       effort by 35%.  Helped achieve
high quality in this complex and critical application.

8. SP Soft, Hyderabad (Jul. 09 – Feb. 10)

Project Name		Android Apps

Business Area		Android

Software		Java 1.5, Android, HTML, JavaScript, SQL.

Project Methodology	Waterfall SDLC

Description	SP Finger Paint: SP Finger paint is a free touch painting
application. This is a Simple, easy, and Fun application which contains
a cute icon menu contains functions like background color, line color &
thickness, line patterns, eraser, clear screen, save image, take photo,
kid mode, select image from device, undo & redo last drawn.

SP Birthday tracker: The system enables user to know all the information
about the upcoming birthday details like Name, Date of Birth, Zodiac
signs, Age, days left for the birthday etc. The user can create a new
list where s/he will be able to add friend’s birthday details, create
notification date and time, set ring tones etc.

Near By: Near By is location base application. Near By is find place
around you. Place Nearby I enable you to find place in the world with
convenience. Quickly find places nearby. Places Nearby I allow you to do
a quick and easy search on places based on your current location. You
can get path from your location to find location

Role	Conceptualized, designed, developed and deployed mobile
applications. Researched application acceptance and solicited feedback
from users to boost adoption rates. Wrote technical specifications and
maintained all reports pertaining to application development process.
Tested the application on various carriers like AT&T, Sprint and
T-Mobile.

Achievements       	Lead the development of several applications.
Produced several complex design solutions which had                     
                high performance. Delivered high quality code.

9. ICARDA, Italy (Sep. 08 – Jun. 09)

Project Name		Library Circle

Business Area		e-commerce, Education Services

Software		Java 1.5, JSP, Servlets, XML, XSL, HTML, JavaScript, HQL,
Dojo, Struts 2, Hibernate, JSTL, PostgreSQL, Spring IOC, NetBeans IDE.

Project Methodology	Waterfall SDLC

Description	Library Circle is a web portal which hosts your library
Catalogue. It enables your users to search and browse through all of
your library's resources from anywhere in the World. Library Circle
allows more people outside the traditional library environment to
discover your content with the Web tools they use every day—including
Google, Google Books and Yahoo! Search. Library Circle takes data about
items in your collection, relates it to basic institutional data such as
the Web addresses of your catalog, electronic content servers and other
online services, and actively spreads it all across the Web via
strategic partnerships and distributed technologies. The result:
Information seekers link to your catalog through search engines, browser
toolbars, social networking sites, online booksellers and the Library
Circle destination site.

Role		I was involved in interaction with Business Users, requirement
analysis, design (high and low level), development, design and technical
Specs review, testing and production support.

Achievements           Achieved low defect rate in the application,
client appreciations for initiatives and active participation in 24*5
productions/testing support.

10. NewGenLib, client- Verus. (Apr. 07 – Aug. 08)

Project Name		NewGenLib

Business Area		Cataloguing and Holdings

Software		Java 1.5, JSP, Servlets, XML, XSL, HTML, JavaScript, HQL,
Dojo, ZKoss, Hibernate, JSTL, PostgreSQL, Spring IOC, NetBeans IDE.

Project Methodology	Waterfall SDLC

Description	NewGenLib is web based and standalone information and
knowledge management system for distributed network. NewGenLib leverages
the World Wide Web to build library, information and knowledge networks
using international standards such as MARC-21, AACR-2R, UNICODE 3.0,
MARC-XML, and Dublin Core. NewGenLib uses Java and J2EE based
application server technologies and making database, operating system
independent. Messages between client and server are compressed and
validated using checksum algorithms (Addler-32) to reduce network
traffic (Ideal for low-band width connections).Managerial approvals at
different levels ensure data integrity. NewGenLib provides OPAC (Online
Public Accessing Catalogue) for end user. NewGenLib facilitates to
generate MIS reports using Jasper reports Technology.

Role		I was involved in development as per Java coding standards,
testing and production support. 

Client URLs	ICRISAT, Hyderabad (  HYPERLINK
"http://newgenlib.icrisat.org"  http://newgenlib.icrisat.org )

	Bangalore University, Bangalore (  HYPERLINK
"http://202.141.128.115:8080/newgenlibctxt" 
http://202.141.128.115:8080/newgenlibctxt )

	SDM Institute of Management, Mysore (  HYPERLINK
"http://58.68.5.50:8080/newgenlibctxt" 
http://58.68.5.50:8080/newgenlibctxt )

	Vishal Informatics, Chennai (  HYPERLINK
"http://202.71.144.140:8080/newgenlibctxt" 
http://202.71.144.140:8080/newgenlibctxt )

Certifications/training

Sun Certified Java Programmer(2008)

SOA WSO2 Middleware products training (Bristol, UK)

Sreekanth Yannam			Page   PAGE  7  of   NUMPAGES  7 

Sreekanth Yannam			Page   PAGE  1  of   NUMPAGES  7 

