TECHPOINT PROFILE

Akhil Gupta

Senior Development Engineer at Pramati Technologies

  HYPERLINK "mailto:akkhil2012@gmail.com"  akkhil2012@gmail.com         
                                                      Contact Number:
8297540671

Summary

Techie who enjoys building great products with great teams. Innovative
professional with proven ability to identify, analyze and solve problems
to increase customer satisfaction and control costs. Strong knowledge of
Object-Oriented software engineering methodologies,UML, Agile Software
development and full Software Development Life Cycle. Excellent in
managing, mentoring, and coaching team members.

Experience

Role: Senior Development Engineer at  Pramati Technologies

Duration: January 2013  -  Present (2 years 7 months)

Product: WaveMaker

Working as the Senior Development Engineer oversees the community for
the product wavemaker, a RAD tool.Developed the features for the product
 using AngularJS+OAuth and Spring Security.

Involved in various roles as Development and migration of the Production
sites to EC2 instances. Looking after the DevOps operations so as to
make the development and release of the products go smooth as played
crucial role in various aspects of SDLC as integration of Continous
Integration tools as Jenkins.

Responsible for addressing the wavemaker community in terms of
implementation (solving the technical queries for the existing
userbase)and roadmap for wavemaker Product Responsible for the migration
of the Product website to amazon cloud environment(AWS) and as owner for
the product.  Maintainance of the wavemaker Blog

Client:Leantaas

Working as a Java Developer for the Analytics/Report generating
application using Spring, JavaScript and Fusion Chart API. 

Client: AJG:IBA:International Brokerage Application

Working on the maintenance and enhancements of the legacy Insurance
Brokerage and Accounting Application running for London Insurance Market

In house Development and Research:

Deployment Configuration tools as Ansible. Basics of Apache Cassandra,
Map Reduce..

Role:Software Engineer Professional Services at  eGain Communications

Duration: March 2012  -  December 2012  (10 months)

Worked on the front end technologies as jquery,javascript,css and server
side technologies as JSP,Servlets for

multiple clients as , SuperValu, Telephonica Peru. Implemented
application features, prototyped solutions, designed UI, and wrote
documentation for several clients.

MTN, a tele gaint of South Africa was prominent.

Role:System Engineer at  TCS

Duration: October 2008  -  March 2012  (3 years 6 months)

Client:General Electric (Capital and Financial Services) The Application
called Minerva is the Financial Leasing Tool developed for GE used by
the different vendors like DELL etc to sell their Assets across the
various European Countries, broadly classified as UK and non-UK
platform. The leasing contracts involves the third party application
called PACE where the pricing decisions regarding the deals are made as
per

the norms defined in the respective country for that particular Deal.
CPE i.e. Central Processing Engine is used for the Credit Check for the
customer 

Client: Tata Sky To maintain two web applications namely EVD(Electronic
Voucher Distribution) and tatasky.com They are developed using J2EE
technologies., using Struts 2 Framework. EVD is an in house solution to
cater to Tata Sky's requirement for electronic top-ups.Currently 62% of
the total top-ups happen through the route of electronic top-ups. As
this is a critical system and directly impacts the revenue of Tata Sky
EVD, a TCS product is being implemented. The application is implemented
in two modes namely, Firstly, EVDWeb throgh the Internet Secondly,
EVDCore in order to do electronic TopUps through Short
MessagingService(SMS) Role:Quaity Assurance Engineer:

Client:EMC(www.emc.com) Worked as the Test Engineer( Quality Assurance)
which involves the execution of the testcases manually for the
datastorage devices hosted remotely in Hopkinton,US. It involved the
testcases to ensure the sinking of the Data stores in various type of
devices manually.

Skills & Expertise

	Programming Languages	Java , DataStructures and Algorithms

Frame Works	Spring

Cloud Computing	Cloud Computing Amazon Web Services(Configuration) ,
OAuth , Drupal(CMS)



IDEs/Tools	Talend(an ETL Tool) , UML(Star UML)



Institute	Education

NIT Srinagar	Bachelor of Technology (BTech), Electronics and
Communications Engineering, 2004 - 2008



Govt. School, Solan	SSC, 2002

ST. Lukes' Solan

	HSC, science, Maths, 1997 - 2000





