PRASANTH BOKKA

JAVA Developer                                                          
          Mobile: +91-9642908871.

Professional Synopsis

A result oriented professional with over 5.2+ years of IT experience
mainly in design, development, and implementation of Web Based
applications.

Extensive knowledge of Java, J2EE, Struts framework,JavaScript,Oracle,
PostgresSQL.

Hands on experience in design, development and testing of E-Governance
applications using JAVA and J2EE technologies.

Experience in working in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle
(SDLC).

Strong dedication towards work to ensure delivery of projects according
to the schedules

 Employment Chronicle            

Duration	Organization	Designation

July 2010 – Till date 	Centre for Good Governance, Hyderabad	Senior
Software Developer



Technical Profile

Languages		           :  Java,J2EE, SQL, PL/SQL.

J2EE APIs			:  Servlets, JSP, JDBC

Open Source technologies        	:  Struts 1.2.

Web Servers			:  Apache Tomcat.

Web Technologies		:  Java Script, HTML, XML, Ajax, CSS

Databases                  		:  Oracle 10g, PostgreSQL.

IDE 				:  MyEclipse 6.6, NetBeans 6.7, Aqua Data Studio

Report Tool                          :  Tableau Software

Proficiency Overview

Project #1	

Title			 :  National Scholarships Portal.

Client        	           : Ministry of Communications & IT,Govt. of
India

Role                               :  Designing, Coding  

Software Environment	 : Java, Jsp, Servlets,Struts 1.2, PostgreSQL 9.2,
Ajax,CSS ,tomcat 7.0                                                    
    

Team Size		 :  10 members.

Description  		:  National Scholarships Portal is one-stop solution
through which various services starting from student application,
application receipt, processing, sanction and disbursal of various
scholarships to students are enabled. This initiative aims at providing
a Simplified, Mission-oriented, Accountable, Responsive & Transparent
'SMART' System for faster & effective disposal of scholarship
applications and delivery of funds directly into beneficiaries account
without any leakages.

Responsibilities:

Involved in the development of the business logic.

User Interfaces were designed and developed by using JSP with Struts
taglibs, HTML, Java script,  CSS, and performed validations using java
script.

Writing and executing SQL Queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, making the
data access layer transparent from the business logic layer.

Involved in Data Base Design.

Used SVN for source code version control.

Responsible for gathering user requirements and design of the system.

Involved in integration, testing and deployment of Application.

Gained management experience while working in this position.

Website:   HYPERLINK "https://www.scholarships.gov.in/" 
https://www.scholarships.gov.in/ 

Project #2	

Title			 :   e-Kalyan Project .

Client        	             :  Tribal Welfare Department, Government of
Jharkand.

Role                               :   Designing, Coding.

Software Environment	:    Java, Jsp, Servlets,Struts 1.2, PostgreSQL
9.2, Ajax,CSS ,tomcat 7.0.                                              
          

Team Size		:    4 members.

Description  		:  The Welfare Department running various schemes for the
welfare of the backward classes and the SC/ST. A step towards achieve
speedy, transparent & accountable governance. .The system links all
welfare departments, treasury, databases of Secondary Schools
Certificate (SSC), colleges and banks to disburse scholarships. This
system enables online transfer of Post Matric scholarship money to
students below the Poverty Line, wherein directly tuition fee
reimbursement is made to colleges and maintenance fee to the student
after due verifications into respective bank accounts. Processing of
students' applications for scholarships, sanctioning and passing of
bills for disbursement are enabled in the system.

Responsibilities:

Involved in the development of the business logic.

User Interfaces were designed and developed by using JSP with Struts
taglibs, HTML, Java script, Ajax, CSS, and performed validations using
java.

Writing and executing SQL Queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, making the
data access layer transparent from the business logic layer.

Involved in Data Base Design.

Designed reports using Tableau software.

Responsible for gathering user requirements and design of the system.

Website:   HYPERLINK "http://www.ekalyan.cgg.gov.in/" 
http://www.ekalyan.cgg.gov.in/ 

Project #3

Title			 :  Karnataka  Electronic Payment & Application System of
Scholarships.

Client        	             : Department of Backward Class Welfare,
Government of Karnataka.

Role                                : Designing, Coding and Maintaining
the website

Software Environment	  : Java, Jsp, Struts 1.2, PostgreSQL , Ajax,CSS
,tomcat 6.0,Tableau.                                                    
    

Team Size		:  4 members.

Description  		:  It is a Web Based Online Application that allows the
students of Karnataka  to register the applications for Scholarship
.Using this web application student can track their application status
and can also edit their details using sliding option. Upon the
successful submission of the application it will be delivered to the
respective college principal’s login. Principal then bonafi the
applicant and forwards it to the concerned Verification Officer  and
forwards it to Taluk Officer. District Officer sanctions the amount and
sends the concerned proceeding to Treasury for release of amount.

Responsibilities:

Involved in the development of the business logic.

Designed and Developed Presentation Tier using struts taglibs, JSP,
HTML/DHTML, CSS, Ajax and JavaScript.

Writing and executing SQL Queries, PL/SQL stored procedures, making the
data access layer transparent from the business logic layer.

Involved in Data Base Design.

Designed reports using Tableau software.

Responsible for gathering user requirements and design of the system.

Involved in integration, testing and deployment of Application.

Website:   HYPERLINK "http://www.karepass.cgg.gov.in/" 
http://www.karepass.cgg.gov.in/ 

Project #4	

Title			 : Electronic Payment & Application System of Scholarships 
(ePASS).

Client        	             : Social Welfare Department, Government of
Andhra Pradesh

Role                                : Designing, Coding 

Software Environment	  : Java, Jsp, Servlets, Struts 1.2, PostgreSQL,
CSS ,tomcat 6.0,web server 5.5.                                         
               

Team Size		:  4 members.

Description  		: It is a Web Based Online Application that allows the
students of Andhra Pradesh to register the applications for Scholarship
.Using this web application student can track their application status
and can also edit their details using sliding option. Upon the
successful submission of the application it will be delivered to the
respective college principal’s login. Principal then bonafi the
applicant and forwards it to the concerned Verification Officer  and
forwards it to District Officer. District Officer sanctions the amount
and sends the concerned proceeding to Treasury for release of amount.
Treasury will release the amount to student and concerned college.

Responsibilities:

Involved in the development of the business logic.

User Interfaces were designed and developed by using JSP with Struts
taglibs, HTML, Java script,  CSS, and performed validations using java
script.

Developed reports as per the client’s requirement.

Involved in workflow studying.

Involved in bug fixing.

Website:   HYPERLINK "http://www.epasswebsite.cgg.gov.in/" 
http://www.epasswebsite.cgg.gov.in/ 

Education

M.Tech (Computer Science Engineering) with   an  aggregate  of  67% from
Gokaraju Rangaraju Institute of Engineering and Technology 
(JNTU)(Sep-2007- Nov-2009) (through GATE)

B.Tech (Computer Science Engineering) with an aggregate of  58% from PVP
Siddhartha Institute of Technology (JNTU) (2003-2007).

Intermediate with an aggregate of 72% from Board of Intermediate
Education, Andhra Pradesh in 2003. 

SSC with an aggregate of 66% from Secondary School Of Education in 2001.

Personal Details

            Name                         :     Prasanth Bokka

Date of Birth              :     29th Aug, 1986.

Gender                      :    Male

Maritial Status             :    Married

Address                     :    S/o B.A.Prakasarao,

                                    Plot No-2, Potlapally Residency,

                                    Miyapur,Hyderabad.

