Springs:4year&current

Hibernate:4year& current

Java:6.5 year

Web services:SOAP

Db:oracle

Application:weblogic/jboss

Available in second week of April

 R.PRATHYUSHA					      	  

Email: prathyusha.ramireddy@gmail.com

      	  Mobile: +91 9989467094

Summary:

IT professional over 6+ years of extensive experience in Web based
development and Application development.

Able to learn new technologies with minimal time period.

Good in solving problems and dealing with people.

Excellent communication and interpersonal skills.

To obtain a challenging position in the industry and to apply my
extensive analytical, programming and inter-personal skills in the
design and development of software systems.

Professional Experience:

Working as a Senior Software Engineer in Prokarma Softech Pvt Ltd.,
Hyderabad from Mar 2011 to till date.

Worked as a Software Engineer in Qwest Software Services, Bangalore from
Aug 2008 to Feb 2011.

Education Qualification:

Bachelor of Technology from J.N.T.University.

Technical competencies:

Languages			:  JAVA,XML  

J2EE Technologies		:  JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JMS, EJB, Web Services

Frame Work 	           :  Struts , Spring , Hibernate, JUnit

Web Technologies		:  HTML, Java Script

Database			:  Oracle 10g 

Web/Application Servers	:  Apache Tomcat Server, Bea Web Logic Server

Integration			:  Eclipse 

Project Experience in Detail: -

1. Shipment Management and Notification (SHN):

Duration	:  March 2011 – till date

Role	       :  Team member

Project Description: -

The Shipment Management and Notifications project delivers a secure,
flexible, real-time reporting interface on the web for external
customers while reducing support costs.  The reporting engine will allow
a customer to schedule and retrieve real-time status and shipment
information and leverage a variety of notification methods. The project
will provide customers to run reports in real-time (a user click), on a
schedule (e.g. every Monday), or when a pre-determined event occurs
(e.g. after car placement).  Links to the reports will be delivered
using the Enterprise Notifications (ENA) via E-mail etc.  The component
will also link to various UP web applications (i.e. diversions, service
issues, etc).

Responsibilities: -

Involved in development and coding.

	Using Spring framework in providing enhancements for the developed
modules.

	Executed the test cases to be performed.

	Actively involved in getting clarification from onsite team for
different tasks.

	I was the mentor in the team to give KT to new guys who joined the
team.

 Got into the shoes of Team Lead in his absence.

2. SDP Platform Delivery:

         Duration	:  May 2010 – Feb 2011

          Role	 	:  Team member

Project Description: -

SDP is a Product Data definition driven Quoting and Ordering factory
Platform to implement flow-through of QCC product orders. The Platform
is generic, that is, designed not to be Product specific. Flow-through
is defined as the ability of Users to avoid re-entry of any data element
from initial customer contact through contracting, Billing and into
Provisioning completion. This process also encompasses to minimize, even
completely avoid, any rejection / fall out coming out of Billing and
Provisioning, once an Order is submitted, by enforcing up front, all the
appropriate Product Configuration and ordering Business rules to insure
a valid data configuration is captured at Quoting and Ordering time, so
as to accomplish Billing and Provisioning of the Order without any
error, and have the Billing invoices completely consistent with the
quoted and contracted prices.

Responsibilities: -

Playing an active role in the day-to-day operations of the project,
Reporting Periodically to  all the stakeholders, Project Plan Execution
and Tracking, and onsite deployment.

Requirement analysis, Perform Low level design and development.

3. QCentral  Portal (Qwest)

          Duration	:  Aug 2008 – Apr 2010

          Role	 	:  Team member

      Project Description: -

This portal created using j2ee and .net technologies is used to sell
Qwest’s Telecom products to prospective corporate customers. The
portal is used by Qwest’s internal agents as well as external agents
to effectively document the selling and delivery process.

The portal comprises of many modules which are hosted in Vignette portal
of which our team was handling four modules. These modules are used to
get the information about the opportunities provided by prospective
customers. The portal as a whole covers the complete life cycle of
selling Qwest’s telecom products like broadband, mobile telephony and
other corporate products etc right from capturing the level of interest
of the customer in the product to ordering, selling , provisioning and
customer care.

Responsibilities: -

	Involved in development and coding.

	Used Struts and Hibernate frameworks in providing enhancements for the
developed modules in this portal.

	Executed the test cases to be performed.

	Actively involved in getting clarification from onsite team for
different tasks.

	Helped my team-mates in fixing issues whenever they faced any problems.

	Involved in fixing bugs coming from both onshore (Denver, US) and
offshore.

 

  PAGE \*Arabic  1 

