Spring:2 year

Hib:2 years

Web services:

6.5/8/30days

11AM

Asutosh Swain									

  asutosh.swn@gmail.com

Phone: +91 7795818182, 91 8884663221

OBJECTIVE:

Seeking an opportunity to utilize career experience, skills and
education to contribute organizational objectives and excel as an
accomplished IT professional.

SUMMARY:

Over 3 years 10 months of experience in Java and J2EE technologies. 

Strong working experience in Web development using Java, Servlet/JSP,
spring, Hibernate & Struts Frameworks.

Good Exposure to Spring MVC as well as Struts MVC.

Good command over Spring IOC module and Hibernate mappings.

Well versed in both JDBC and Hibernate for the database connectivity. 

Well practiced with integrating struts, spring and hibernate. 

Exposure to multithreading, exception and collections.

Worked extensively with Application Servers like Apache Tomcat, Web
logic. 

Strong expertise in developing user-friendly web interfaces using HTML,
JSP technology.

Good experience in application development using IDE’s likes Eclipse
Indigo, My Eclipse.

Knowledge in applying Object Oriented Programming (OOPs) & Design
Patterns in application development.

SKILLS

Programming Languages:		Java, J2EE

Frameworks:				Spring, Hibernate, Struts

Web Technologies:			HTML/ (HTML-5), Thyme leaf, XML, Java Script, Maven,
AJAX, JQUERY

Operating System:			Windows XP/7

Database:				Heidi SQL, Oracle 10g (SQL & PL/SQL)

Web servers:				Apache Tomcat 5.0

IDE’s Used:				Eclipse, My Eclipse 6.x

EXPERIENCE SUMMARY:

A total of 3 years 10 months of experience in Java and web applications.

Worked as a Software Engineer at G2 Evolution Pvt Ltd., Bangalore.

Working as a Software Engineer at Mindtree Mind, Bangalore.

PROJECTS:

#1- Avis & Budget Group: - TT-ABG-SEO-UPDATES (Phase – I & II)

Avis

Budget

Technologies: J2SE, J2EE, Spring 3.0, HTML5-Thymeleaf, Maven, WebLogic,
JS, CSS, Java Script

Project Synopsis:  

          		 It is a SEO-UPDATE projects, the main objective of this
project is to increase the number of unique pages and Google ranking for
which the website is more visible to user. For TT-ABG-SEO-UPDATES, we
are using Spring MVC and Thyme leaf.

Responsibilities: 

Developed the front end design using Spring MVC.

Developed view page using Thyme leaf.

Developed and modify CSS and JS.

#2- Property Bazar

Technologies: J2SE, J2EE, Spring 2.5, Hibernate3.6.5, Heidi SQL, maven,
tomcat7 to till date

Project Synopsis:  

          		 Property Bazar is a Real Estate project and developed using
J2EE technologies. The main aim of this project is to provide
professional services for buying, selling, leasing and renting of
commercial, industrial, IT, institutional, retail and residential
properties. Here the web-admin can control the total site through his
admin panel. It has tie-up with more than 50 Builders. Web-admin is the
authorized person to add project. He can change the total look of this
project. User can search by searching required information
(City/Builder/Project Name).This project mainly classified in to two
modules.

	

Responsibilities: 

Developed the front end design using Spring MVC.

Written  hibernate to fetch and manipulate data from database

Implemented MVC design pattern. 

#3 – Hotel Portland Integration

Technologies: J2SE, J2EE, Struts1.3, Hibernate3.6.5, Oracle10g, tomcat5 

Project Synopsis:  

		Hotel Portland Integration is an e-commerce enabled portal designed
and developed using J2EE technologies. The main aim of this project is
to reserve rooms to Customer by searching required information given by
customer. Here the web-admin can control the total site through his
admin panel. It has tie-up with more than 3000 Hotels. Web-admin is the
authorized person to add clients. He can change the total look of this
project. Reporting Manager Web application will help web-admin to track
the bookings of the customer by selecting dates. 

Roles and Responsibilities:

Front end development using Struts1.3 framework.

Developing Presentation layer by using JSP.

developing Java applications using Eclipse and deployed in Tomcat7 web
server.

  

Strengths

Very active, Positive, logical & more over a good team player.

Having 3Ds (Desire, Determination, Dedication) towards work.

Significant Achievements

Awarded prizes for Math contests.

Bagged trophies as a Cricket all-rounder in School, College and district
levels.

Educational Profile

 

BCA, bachelor in computer application in ‘F.M University’ Orissa,
2009.

CHSE have completed from MHDM College under ‘Council of Higher
Secondary Education’.

BSE have completed from Chhatia High School, Chhatia under of ‘Board
of secondary Education’.

				

Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts				

	

Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts					

