2PM saturday

Team size:6

Spring:

Hib:

Webservice

14/18/

Call at 4PM

Sivananda Reddy                                        

    	                

Phone:  +91-9620683339                                  	Email:
shiva.mail1985@gmail.com

 

Professional Summary:

Having 7 Years of experience in Development of web based and Enterprise
applications.

Work Experience:

Working as a Technical Lead in SocieteGenarale GSC Pvt Ltd since August
2011.

Worked as a Delivery Software Engineer in Mphasis an HP company from
March 2010 to August 2011.

Worked as a Software Engineer in ClifttonMyers Enterprises pvt Ltd from
July 2008 to March 2010.

Technical Proficiency:

Involved in development of applications using Java and J2EE.

Development experience in ILog JRules and ODM.

Strong working knowledge in Spring IOC, MVC, ORM, Batch, AOP,
WebServices modules.

Strong working knowledge in hibernate and JPA.

Strong working Experience in spring batch applications.

Strong working knowledge on spring, Hibernate, Struts, JSF, FreeMarker.

Good knowledge on Hadoop Map Reduce Program.

Good Knowledge on Oracle database concepts and undergone training on
EXADATA.

Good working knowledge on SOAP WebServices.

Written and executed test cases using JUnit and EasyMock.

Good working experience on automated deployment DeployIt tool and
configurations on DeployIt (XL Deploy).

Having experience on continuous integration tools like Jenkins, Sonar
and Hudson.

Experience in using application life cycle management tools like JIRA

Good knowledge on version control systems SVN, VSS.

Worked on Agile software development methodology (scrum methodology).

Worked on BDD and TDD environments.

Involved in developing design documents and specs documents.

Strong analytical, problem-solving and organizational skills.

Educational Qualifications:

Bachelor of Computer Science from Sri Krishnadevaraya University in
2006.

Project Experience:

Project #1:

Title		: TAX Allocation.

Role		: Technical Lead.

Technologies	: spring-batch, JPA with Hibernate, ILog JRules(ODM),
Oracle, XLDeploy, Maven, JUnit, Easy-Mock, Jenkins, sonar.    

Duration	: November 2014 to till date

Description: 

This project is mainly used for calculating Transfer pricing tax for the
trades happened between the countries. Tax allocation (TA) will receive
Trading GOP and deals information from the different upstream systems
and TA will aggregate the data at GOP level and sharing will be
calculated for all the levels using ODM/ILOG rules. This sharing data
will be sent to downstream system for reporting purpose.

Responsibilities:

Involved in Architecture design discussion and finalization.

Involved in various brainstorming sessions for the finalizing the
topics.

Implemented multiple Spring batch jobs (single threaded and
multithreaded)

Implemented business rules, workflows and rule changes in ILOG/ODM.

Involved in writing SQL queries for spring batch readers.

Involved in Data Model creation.

Independently handled the project releases.

Worked on Agile methodology and continuous delivery level1.

Done the code reviews and taken sessions to the team.

Used XLDeploy, Jenkins, Jira, Sonar tools.

Project #2:

Title		: Sales Credit Program (SCP).

Role		: Technical Lead.

Technologies	: spring-batch, JPA with Hibernate, ILog JRules, Oracle,
XLDeploy, maven, JUnit, Easy-Mock, Jenkins, sonar.    

Duration	: August 2011 to November 2014

Description: 

Sales credit program (SCP) now popularly known as SCORE has replaced the
Legacy systems (Odyssey and Eliot sales) is used to calculate the sales
credit of the trade deals and share the profit and loss to the different
clients. SCORE mainly contains 3 modules. 

Score Ref: ScoreRef is the entry module in the SCORE where it will
receive all the data from upstream applications in the form on CSV
files. Ref will validate the data and compute the sales credit. The
calculated sales credit along with the deals information will be sent to
Score allocation for sharing of the sales credit in the form of the JMS
Message.

Score Allocation: JMS message containing the deal information will be
received in Score allocation and the sharing of the sales credit will be
done with the help of ILOG – JRules. Each sharing will be done in the
form of steps and the information of the steps will be stored in DB.

Score Distribution: Distribution module will generates the extracts by
making use of Score Ref and Allocation data by applying some processing
rules and sends these extracts to the clients SFTB.

Responsibilities:

Involved in POC of the distribution project.

Involved in design and development of the distribution project.

Coordinated with business for understanding and documentation of
business requirements.

Developed healthy code with all probable’s of unit test case coverage
and maintained good sonar report.

Implemented business rules, workflows and rule changes in ILog JRules.

Implemented critical components like JMX, SFTB, Mail distribution
services.

Implemented quartz scheduling.

Written integration test cases to test the features during the dev
phase.

Independently handled the project releases.

Played a major role in performance improvement by tuning SQL Queries.

Taken KT sessions and on boarded all new candidates.

Used DeployIt, Jenkins, Jira, Sonar tools.

Project #3:

Title		: Aon UKECM FileNet Migration.

Role		: Developer.

Technologies	: JSF, ICEfaces, WebServices, WebSphere.

Duration	: April 2011 to August 2011

Client		: AON

Description: 

This project will help’s in migrating the documents from the existing
Aon UKECM FileNet 3.5 system to FileNet P8 4. The OOTB application,
WorkplaceXT is to aceess and manipulates document metadata & content.

The workplaceXT is a JSF application and it’s not a customizable one.
The business requires few features to index the documents &
functionalities to manage documents which are not available in
WorkplaceXT. In order to overcome these issues, a custom JSF (ICEFaces)
application is built to support all the business requirements. The Aon
UK ECM Custom Indexing Application has Multi-Indexing and Bulk-Indexing
Screens.

Responsibilities:

Preparing Specs and Design documents.

Building up JSF view’s and action classes.

Reading the data from the XML files using JAXB

Involved in design planning and code reviewing.

Executing test cases.

Project #4: 

Title		: KIAC

Role		: Developer.

Technologies	: Spring, hibernate, EJB, JSF, Junit, Weblogic and Oracle.

 Duration	: March 2010 to April 2011

 Client		: FedEx, USA

Description: 

Key Information Air Cargo (KIAC) an event driven, industry compliant,
global automated freight shipping system for the 023 air waybill
products and purchased lift, and provides regulatory manifesting for all
FedEx products. It is the primary Air Cargo Shipping/Handling system
within FedEx.  It is responsible for creating and monitoring the Air
waybills for 023 products. This Project is not the standard development
of a new system; rather, it is the replacement of an existing system
(KIAC) which was developed using legacy applications. I played an
important role in implementing print management, Jobs execution and
Departure.

Responsibilities:

Preparing Design documents for the Modules.

Worked on generating PDF documents using IText.

Implemented Service, Helper and Dao classes.

Implemented batch jobs using spring.

Implemented Junit Test classes.

Worked on JSF pages.

Project #5: 

 Title		: ThreeJars

 Role		: Developer.

 Technologies	: Spring MVC with Annotations, hibernate, Freemarker,  

  			YUI, JavaScript, Apache Tomcat and MySQL.

 Duration	: July 2008 to March 2010

 Client		: ThreeJars, Norwalk U.S.A

Description: 

Threejars.com is a rich internet based application which helps parents
to teach their children financial education, the value of money and most
importantly, how to manage the money. Here the child can
save/spend/share with their money credited in the form of allowance or
deposited from their parent. The child can also make some friends and
see how they are utilizing their money in the form of save/share/spend.

Responsibilities:

Implemented controller, service and Dao classes.

Implemented batch jobs using spring.

Building up views by using Freemarker.

Implemented GUI sliders using YUI.

Developed classes for scheduler Jobs.

Validations are provided using java Script.

