Vinay Damle (7.6 years Java/J2ee)

Mobile				          Email

+91-8600767939     HYPERLINK "mailto:damlevinay11@gmail.com /
vinay.damle11@yahoo.com"  damlevinay11@gmail.com 

TECHNICAL SUMMARY

Languages	Core Java

Database / ORM	Hibernate

Web Technologies	Spring Modules : 

Core, Context, Object Relational Mapping (ORM), Model View Controller
(MVC), Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP), Spring Boot

	Java Server Faces (JSF), Struts

	Web-Services (REST & SOAP)

Testing framework

Tools	JUnit, Mockito

SOAP UI

Configuration Management	SVN, CVS and StarTeam

Build tools	Maven, Gradle

Certifications	Sun Certified Java Professional (SCJP 1.5)

Web-Logic Certified Developer (Build Solutions 8.1)

IDE

Database Tools	Eclipse, STS, Web-logic Workshop

SQL Developer, TOAD

Integration / Tracking system	Bamboo, JIRA, Crucible

Operating Systems	Windows, Unix



EDUCATION DETAILS

Degree	University / Board	Institute	Percentage

M.E. Electronics	Shivaji University 	W.C.E, Sangli	64%



B.E. Elex & Telecom	R.G.P.V Bhopal	S.G.S.I.T.S, Indore	66%



H.S.C	M.P. State Board	K.P.School , Durg	66%

S.S.C	M.P. State Board	K.P.School , Durg	66%



EXPERIENCE CHRONOLOGY

AVAYA

Description	Avaya Diagnostic Server (ADS) is a secure remote access and
alarming to provide your organization with sophisticated remote IP Phone
diagnostics and unprecedented network visibility. Using patented
technologies with smart agents embedded in Avaya solutions, Avaya
Diagnostic Server provides historical network analysis to empower you to
proactively solve network issues faster than ever before, which can lead
to fewer escalations. This product is combination of SAL and SLAMon

SLAMon (Service Level Agreement Monitor) is responsible for monitoring
and diagnosis of the network. It captures the various impairments like
jitter, delay, loss etc. for Audio, Video and Data traffic type and
present them on GUI as color grid and also as charts starting from 1 day
to 5 days data at a time. OSGI framework is used to come with SLAMon.

Client	Avaya India Pvt. Ltd.

Organization/ Duration	Betsol Software India Pvt. Ltd. / August 2013 to
till date

Environment	Core Java, JSF, Spring, SOA, Web-Services (REST), Unix

Role	Software Developer (Analysis, Design, Development and Unit Testing)

Contributions	Responsible for development both is front-end and back-end

Working in JSF pages (Ice-Faces) for front-end, and Spring/Java for
business implementation

Executing all the unit test cases and recording the test results

Experience on estimations, QA/QC reviews, project planning, project
mentoring

Also responsible for performing developer performance testing of the
product

Team size	12

APOLLOGROUP, USA

Description	Apollo is product development organization that makes
e-learning applications for Phoenix university. This application is UI
application that makes web service call (Soap and Rest) to Platform to
get the data to be served on UI. It also interacts with content
management system to get the menu's to be displayed on UI.

Client	Apollo Group USA

Organization/ Duration	IntraEdge Technologies Pvt. Ltd. / March 2012 to
July 2013

Environment	Core Java, Hibernate, Spring, Spring Tool Suite, SOA,
Web-Services (SOAP/REST)

Role	Software Developer (Analysis, Design, Development and Unit Testing)

Contributions	Analyzing business/software and functional specifications

Converting the functional specifications into technical specifications
i.e. functional use case to technical use case

Responsible for technical design documents plan and executing the same

Responsible for high level and low level design diagrams

Responsible for writing unit test cases for the entire business
requirements

Responsible for the development of JSF pages, Spring and Hibernate
components

Responsible for providing necessary input to the development team as and
when required. Provided necessary guidance for the POCs developed

Executing all the unit test cases and recording the test results

Experience on estimations, QA/QC reviews, project planning, project
mentoring

Mentoring and training fresh team members in technical



Team size	8

DEUTSCHE LEASING (DL), GERMANY

Description	Deutsche Leasing Integrated Angebot System (DL-IAS) is the
leasing offer management system. Based on SOA with JSF for presentation,
the system allows for easy reflection changes in the business into the
system. A custom process management framework allows for simple and
quick definition and 

Management of processes. Component interactions are performed using
services registered in service bus; also service routing also be done by
same. Business logic is implemented in Spring which interacts with the
database using standard JPA/ Hibernate.

iMAP is one component of the IAS suite responsible for providing a
single 

window access to the various applications that make up the IAS suite.
The iMAP provides an internationalized, localized and personalized
environment in which the user interacts with the various applications of
the IAS suite. 

The iMAP is unique in its ability to allow for multiple instances of the
same application (each with its own application session) to be hosted.
This support can be seamlessly extended to existing JEE based web
applications that are not designed or developed for supporting multiple
instances within the same browser window.

Client	Deutsche Leasing Germany

Organization/

Duration	Hexaware Technologies Ltd. / March 2011 to February 2012

Environment	Core Java, JSF, Hibernate, Spring, Eclipse

Role	Senior Developer (Analysis, Design, Development and Unit Testing)

Contributions	Analyzing business/software and functional specifications

Converting the functional specifications into technical specifications
i.e. functional use case to technical use case

Responsible for technical design documents plan and executing the same

Responsible for high level and low level design diagrams

Responsible for writing unit test cases for the entire business
requirements

Responsible for the development of JSF pages, Spring and Hibernate
components

Responsible for providing necessary input to the development team as and
when required. Provided necessary guidance for the POCs developed

Executing all the unit test cases and recording the test results

Team size	6

BADEN ANILINE & SODA FACTORY (BASF), GERMANY

Description	GCD (Global Communication Directory) is internal application
for the BASF. GCD_Admin (GCD Administration), GCD2 and GCD_WS are the
main application comes under GCD. Using GCD_Admin, administrator can
upload, authorize and delete images. Also monthly and daily schedulers
are the part of same. GCD2 can be used to fetch employee details from
the database and same can be printed, exported to excel and word
document. 

GCD_WS is the spring web service which sends employee(s) details to the
consumer.

Client	BASF Germany

Organization/

Duration	Mahindra Satyam / July 2010 to Feb 2011



Environment	

Core Java, JSF, SPRING, and HIBERNATE, Eclipse and Tomcat

Role	Senior Developer (Analysis, Design, Development and Unit Testing)

Contributions	Analyzing software requirements, functional and technical
specifications

Direct interaction with client for the requirement clarification and
understanding

Worked in developing GCD Image administration web application

Performed end-to-end enhancement for GCD2 web application

Developed Spring web service from the scratch

Prepared the design documents for all the applications developed

As a developer performed end-to-end testing for the entire applications

Coding involves making use of BASF framework, which is combination of
JSF, Spring and Hibernate

Prepared the understanding document for client framework and for the
newly developed applications

Team size	1



	RETAIL DEVELOPMENT, ATT, USA

Description	OPUS is an application used in Company Owned Retail (COR)
Stores for serving their customers. The end-users of OPUS are Customer
Service Representatives (CSRs), Store Managers, Regional Sales Managers
etc. In AT&T Mobility terms a Market (MKT) represents certain
geographical area in the USA. Each market uses billing system. Each
market is further divided into Sub-markets and Service Cities.

OPUS also interacts with various external systems for billing purposes,
account management etc. External application interfaces are used to
access these systems. These external APIs interact with the external
systems through EJB or Web services. XML request/response architecture
is followed in case of Web services.

Client	ATT, USA

Organization /

Duration	Tech Mahindra / December 2009 to March 2010

Environment	Core Java, Struts, Eclipse, Unix

Role	Developer (Development and Unit Testing)

Contributions	Analyzing software requirements, functional and technical
specifications

Worked in scheduled quarterly release

Coding involves incorporation of new functionality and modifying the
database accordingly

For ad-hoc releases providing support for UAT and performing DVT

Team size	20



MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL (MPI) SERVICE DESIGN, UK

Description	MPI-Service Design provides a set of globalized applications
for invoicing, publishing advertisements in job portal, and for
candidate-on-boarding. These applications GRIFFIN (Global Revenue
Interface for Finance), GAT (Global Advertisement Tool) and COB
(Candidate-on-Boarding) will replace the existing region specific
applications.

GAT provides a singular global solution for online & offline advertising
that will standardize the Advert Publication Lifecycle for Michael Page
International. GAT will cover the full Advertisement Lifecycle which
includes the: Creation; Revision; Authorization; Maintenance; & Storage
of all advertisements. This will also include any specific systems
interactions necessary for the completion of not only Online Advertising
requires, but “Offline Advertisement” as well.

Client	Michael Page International(MPI) UK

Duration	April 2009 to December 2009

Environment	Core Java, Struts, Hibernate, Web-logic, SOA, SOAP/REST

Role	Developer (Analysis, Design and Development)

Contributions	Analyzing software requirements, functional and technical
specifications

Prepared issue logs and raised requirement ambiguity

Involved in the Business process modelling for Griffin Application

Involved in the Low level Designing (LLD)

Responsible for Struts and Hibernate components

Prepared unit test cases and provided assistance to testing team for
preparing end-to-end test cases

Team size	40

DATABASE OF RECORDS (DBOR), ATT, USA

Description	DBOR (Database of Records) is a program in classic AT&T. As
a Programmer, I designed and developed the applications and web-services
used by AT&T clients to access business information. DBOR is AT&T's
target information service platform. DBOR is a logical database that
houses enterprise data that is clean, consistent, and up-to-date, with
minimal redundancy. EDB (Enterprise Data Bus) is a main DBOR component
that deals with real-time (transactional) information services.



Client	

ATT, USA

Organization/

Duration	Tech Mahindra / September 2007 to March 2009

Environment	Core Java, Web-Logic Workshop, Eclipse, Tomcat, Unix

Role	Developer (Analysis, Design and Development for one particular
module)

Contributions	Analyzing software requirements, functional and technical
specifications

Worked on scheduled quarterly releases

Resolved high severity production issues to be delivered in ad-hoc
releases

Enhanced Web-Services to incorporate new business functionality

Responsible for adding new functionality, enhancement, unit testing,
troubleshooting and debugging

Provided deployment and UAT support for quick resolution of issues

Team size	2



Declaration:

I hereby, declare that the details furnished above are true to the best
of my knowledge.

(Vinay Damle)

