Uday kiran Godha

Email:udaykirangodha@gmail.com

                                                             Mobile No:
+91-9642287728

SUMMARY:

Having 4 years of experience in designing and implementing extensible
and scalable solutions in J2EE Development and passion for designing and
developing innovative, high quality, high performance, maintainable and
effective J2EE web Applications. Banking Domain (especially in Global
Risk, Compliance and Regulatory) and Norkom/Detica Netreveal Case and
WLM management.

Good command in Core Java,J2EE Technologies like Servlets, JSP ,JDBC,
Ejb’s, JavaScript, HTML,XML,JSF and Databases like Oracle 10g and
MySQL 5.0 and frameworks like Struts, Spring, and Hibernate (ORM).

Extensively used various design patterns such as MVC, DAO and Session
Façade in the development of Multi-Tier distributed Enterprise
Applications.

Norkom/Detica Netreveal product owned by HSBC to use it as Group
solution for WLM Management. This product is based on JEE, Struts and
hibernate.

Experience in installation, configuration, and deployment of Risk based
software product (Detica Netreveal) and participated in region releases
and providing live support to them.

Worked extensively in various streams of banking domain within HSBC
Software development pvt ltd. India as a highly motivated to take on
responsibilities, an active team player able to contribute efficiently.

Willingness and ability to quickly adapt and learn new technologies and
to deliver outputs in limited period of time.

Ability to work independently as well as with team members.

WORK EXPERIENCE:

Working as a Sr. Software Engineer for Birla Soft from OCT 2014 to till
date.

Working as a Software Engineer for HSBC GLT from OCT 2011 to SEP 2014.

Working as a Software Developer for Four-Soft Limited from June 2010 to
July 2011.

EDUCATIONAL Qualification:

Standard	Year Of Passing	Board/University	CGPA/% of Marks Obtained

 B.Tech(C.S.E)	2010	GITAM College of Engineering	8.42

Intermediate(M.P.C)	2006	Board of Intermediate Education, A.P	94.8

X Class	2004	Board of Secondary Education, A.P	90.6



TECHNICAL SKILLS:

Operating Systems	Windows, Unix

Databases	 Oracle 10g, My SQL

Programming Languages	 C,C++, Core Java

J2EE Technologies	JDBC, Servlets, JSP, EJB, XML, Ajax, JSF

Frameworks

	Struts ,Springs



ORM	Hibernate

Scripting Languages

	HTML, JavaScript, CSS



Application Server	ORACLE OC4J, Web Logic

Web Server

	Tomcat 5.5,Glassfish



IDE’s/TOOLS	Eclipse, Net Beans, IBM RAD,My Eclipse, Crystal Clear,HP
QC



BUILDTOOL                                           ANT

PROJECTS:

 

Project #1: 

Role                  : Developer				                        (October
2014 – Till date)

Title	            : Motor Tools

Client	         :   GE

Environment   : Java, Jsp, Servlets, TSF Frame work, Restfulwebservices,
XML, JDBC, Java Script, Oracle10g, Jboss 5.0, WinScp, Putty,SQL
developer.

Description:

    Motor Tools contains applications like EBG+,PDA,MMS,PQS 

  

Responsibilities:

Involved in developing the CR’S for the application.

Worked as one of the Core Development member in the team.

Involved to resolve various Production issues.

Interacting with Users on call to understand the requirements/
troubleshooting / updates on deliveries.

Weekly Reporting to the Manager on issues, achievements, progress, risks
and projected plan.

Followed Design Patterns while developing and designing the application.

Designed the technical documents and unit test cases for the documents.

Involved in developing the user interface, for invoking the business
logic, writing data access logic and displaying pages respectively.

Involved in Team Meetings and provided my views in designing the
application.

Project #2: 

Role                  : Developer				                        (October
2011 – Septmber 2014)

Title	            : SCION&SCDM

Client	         :   HSBC(US ,EU,ASP,LAM,ARG)

Environment   : Core Java, SQL, HTML, JavaScript, IBM RAD 7, IBM DB2,
Windows 7, SharePoint, Quality center 9.2, Norkom WLM and Case
Management Tool, DB Visualizer, WinScp, Putty,MKS .

Description: 

SCION is a Case Management system and Intelligence Database for security
related incidents and Money Laundering suspicions for use by all Group
companies on a global basis.  It provides users with access to a central
source of information to facilitate better informed case management,
risk management, reporting and analysis. SCION has replaced various
diverse local end-user systems.

Security Compliance Data Matching (SCDM) is a global client screening
utility and watch list management system.  Participating
countries/business entities will pass new and altered customer data to
SCDM for comparison against Group and local lists of terrorists,
criminals, sanctioned entities and politically exposed people.

Responsibilities:

Involved in developing the CR’S for the application.

Worked as one of the Core Development member in the team.

Involved to resolve various Production issues.

Interacting with Users on call to understand the requirements/
troubleshooting / updates on deliveries.

Weekly Reporting to the Manager on issues, achievements, progress, risks
and projected plan.

Generated Reports for world check list and standard list

Followed Design Patterns while developing and designing the application.

Designed the technical documents and unit test cases for the documents.

Involved in developing the user interface, for invoking the business
logic, writing data access logic and displaying pages respectively.

Involved in Team Meetings and provided my views in designing the
application.

Involved in Audit of SCDM project.

Project #3: 

Role                  : Developer				                        (September
2010 – June 2011)

Title	            : e-Trans2.9

Client	         :   Jacobson, UTC

Environment   : Java, Jsp, Servlets, EJBs, AJAX, XML, JDBC, Java Script,
Crystal Clear, Oracle10g, OC4J, PL/SQL

Description: 

                 Multi-modal Freight Management System, e-Trans meet all
the information requirements of freight service providers in moving
their customer’s shipments across various geographical locations. It
is a complete B2B enterprise application (ERP) and handles all
operational and financial information needs of Air and Ocean.

Air and Ocean are two types of Shipments. In this product have two types
of operations. These two types of operations are done in AIR and OCEAN.

Operation Types:

                   1. Export Operations

	2. Import Operations

Each operation has various types of Modules, which completes the End To
End operations in e-Trans.

Responsibilities:

Developed the project using EJB2.x, Jsp, Servlets, JavaScript, Ajax and
Xml.

Involved in developing the CR’S for the application.

Worked as one of the Core Development member in the team.

Involved to resolve various issues.

Followed Session Façade Design Patterns while developing and designing
the application.

Designed the technical documents for Air and Ocean Operations.

Involved in  develop the user interface, for invoking the business
logic, writing data access logic and displaying JSP pages respectively.

Involved in Team Meetings and provided my views in designing the
application.

Deploy & build the Application.

Unit Testing.

ACHIEVEMENTS:

Certification in Java conducted by HSBC. 

TEAM Award by HSBC for Q1 2012.

J2EE Certification from Srikanth Technologies.

Town First in 10th Class.

Got Many Prizes in essay writing at School level.

EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES:

Event Organizer in  the event of Denni.s,  Blackswan.c  in Organization
of National level Technical Fest  Alacrity-09,Conducted by Computer
Science&Engineering Dept.GITAM.

Actively Participated in many social service activities like serving in
old age homes, orphanages, blind school etc.

Declaration: 

I hereby declare that the information furnished above is the true to the
best of my knowledge.

Date:

Place: Hyderabad                                                  	
[UDAYKIRAN GODHA] 

PUBLIC

PUBLIC

