								Sudheer Maddukuri

                                   				  	  
sudheermaddukuri.java@gmail.com                   Professional Summary 	
		   	         Mobile No:  91-9701663135                                
                                                             

Almost 9 years of experience in the design and development of software
applications.

Expertise in development of Web based, Client/Server and Distributed
Applications by using Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Struts, and spring
framework.

Experience involves the development of ‘N-tier’ architecture based
applications and J2EE Design Patterns.

Sound experience in using Eclipse, ANT, Maven and Apache-Log4j
frameworks.

Proficient in Deploying application using Jboss, Weblogic and Tomcat
servers.

Experience in Software Development with Object Oriented technologies
using J2S and J2E Editions.

Good implementation knowledge on MVC Architecture using Action (Struts)
framework.

Strong knowledge of Java webservices and RESTful webservices.

Strong experience in executing test cases using JUnit for unit testing
frameworks.

Hands-on-Experience on Web scripting languages such as JavaScript and
HTML.

Good knowledge of database programming using JDBC and Hibernate.

Strong analytical, Solid Work Ethics, Effective Communication,
Innovative, Organizational and Problem solving skills.

Certification

Sun Certified Java Programmer (SCJP) 

  HYPERLINK
"http://education.oracle.com/pls/web_prod-plq-dad/db_pages.getpage?page_
id=322"  Sun Certified Web Component Developer  (SCWCD)

Professional Experience

Working as Senior Software Engineer with CA Technologies, Hyderabad from
Dec 2012 till date.

Worked as Senior Consultant with EMC Corporation, Bangalore from March
2012 till Dec 2012.

Worked as Technology Consultant with Hewlett Packard, Bangalore from
June 2010 till March 2012.

Worked as Software Engineer with HCL Technologies, Bangalore from 2009
October till 2010 June.

Worked as Software Engineer with FOUR-SOFT LIMITED, Hyderabad from 2006
July till 2009 September.

Technical Summary

Java Technologies		:   Java, J2EE, Webservices.

Frameworks			:   Struts, Hibernate, spring, JUnit.

Integration			:   Apache ActiveMQ 5.x, Apache Camel 1.x.

Build Tools			:   Apache Ant, Maven.

Tools/IDE			:   Eclipse, TOAD,  

				    IReport, XMLSpy, JBPM5, Axis2, Flux.	    

Databases 			:   MySql 4.0 & Oracle 10g.

Web Technologies		:   XML, XSL, HTML, Java Script, AJAX.

Web/App/LDAP servers   	:   JBoss 5, Weblogic 8.1, Oracle 10g, 

    Tomcat, Apache, iPlanet Directory Server.

Versioning Tool	  	:   CVS, CMSynergy, CSSynergy, WinCVS, VSS, SVN.

Projects Summary 

1. CA Platform:

Role: Senior Developer

CA Platform is a next generation cloud platform and saas solution for CA
Technologies to host its different products on SaaS model. This is one
of the most on-demand products within CA and growing very aggressively. 

Requirements gathering and refinement.

Participating in Cross Functional discussions with architects for
understanding of requirements. 

Unit testing based on JUnit

Handled direct reports successfully delivered different modules for CA
Platform.

Evaluation (POC implementation) of technologies for implementation in
project

Managed configuration and releases.

Environment: Java/J2EE, Odata4j,  RESTful Webservices, MySQL, Maven,
Spring, Hibernate, AWS, Openshift, Teamcity.

2. Senior Consultant at EMC Corporation, Bangalore		Mar 2012 till Dec
2012

Been part of an excellent team which worked on a product called EMC
Blackhawk which is a data center consolidation tool. This was also a
kind of use case which the company wanted to use for showcasing its
latest stack going to release at that time. This was a unique solution
which used VMware vFabric Cloud Application Platform, VMware
virtualization products and followed a cloud development and release
approach then. I have been part of this project from scratch.

Environment: Java/J2EE, Backbone js, bootstrap,  RESTful Webservices,
MySQL, Maven, Spring, Hibernate, AWS, Openshift, Teamcity.

3. Media Core Backend Services (MCBS), Walt Disney.

Role: Technology Consultant

MCBS will function as the media repository for all NGE-generated media
files, including as-captured native formats and MCBS-created proxies. 
Further, the MCBS will signal each “Media Event” to the NGE message
bus as each new media set (essence and metadata) is ingested.  The
following is a high-level depiction of the various roles, functions,
communications pathways and media flows into and out of MCBS.

MCBS exposes both RESTful and non-RESTful interfaces to its clients. As
a part of non-RESTful interfaces, it provides a loosely coupled
mechanism for external modules and other Media components to ‘drop’
media files to a ‘landing zone’ so that media can be detected and
ingested into MCBS.

Requirements gathering and refinement.

Designing JBPM workflows based on JPDL (Java Process Definition
Language).

Participating in Cross Functional discussions with architects for
understanding of requirements. Develop business workflows based on Flux
(A licensed workflow management software).

Unit testing based on JUnit

Environment: Java/J2EE, RESTful Webservices, XML, XSL, Javascript,
Tomcat, Oracle 11g, Maven, Apache CXF, Spring, Hibernate.

4. Media on Cloud: RS DVR Solution which aims at time & place shifting
(June 2010 to March 2011).



Role: Technology Consultant

The days of planning your time around your favorite television program
are long gone. Consumers of visual media have shifted habits to an
“anytime, anywhere” expectation. And providers of television and
video programming are looking for new ways to deliver accordingly. This
application uses most of the cloud computing concepts to ensure that all
the components can be used “anytime, anywhere”.

This RS-DVR solution eliminates the equipment in the home and provides a
managed service for the storage and play-out of broadcast content.
Capabilities are similar to the DVR; they include recording and
play-out, quota management, pausing of live TV, and permanent locker
boxes for users agreed upon during contract. Another innovative aspect
allows multiple ingest sources and the ability to deliver to multiple
devices (television set-top box, personal computer, mobile phone)
efficiently and quickly. The solution can also create a “media
chain” that allows the addition of value-added services during the
delivery process, such as advertising insertion, real-time trans-coding
and scaling, and interactive overlays. 

Requirements gathering and refinement.

Designing JBPM workflows based on JPDL (Java Process Definition
Language).

Taking change request implementations to completion. 

Unit testing based on JUnit

Environment: Java/J2EE, Webservices, XML, XSL, Javascript, PL/SQL, Jboss
5, Oracle 10g, Ant, Spring, Hibernate.



5. Risk Management (dbDERiC) and dbOne (Oct 2009 to June 2010), Deutsche
Bank, Germany.



Role: Software Engineer

dbDERiC: It’s a Intraday Risk Monitoring system. Risk-based margining
covers the entire process of measuring, calculating and settling margins
payable on all open trade positions to cover any risks arising from
market trades. Haircut calculation is based on historical performance
and expected volatilities of securities. 

Calculation of a single risk amount for each PECC client including the
current balance 

  of the central Target account and any centrally deposited collateral

 Introduction of a new credit line: PECC-Margin-Requirements, to be
setup in Paragon 

  as Overnight Limit

 Haircuts for “stand alone” positions and pendings for stock
(5%-100%), 

  cash (2.5%, if not Euro), stock lendings (5%) – agreed with CRM EM

dbOnE :- is the clearing and settlement platform used by Deutsche Bank
Frankfurt, Germany for the CBF & Eurexchange markets. This includes
functionality in Trade Clearing activities such as Trade Matching,
Blocking/ Unblocking i.e disposition, Client Reporting etc. It supports
Netting functionality on trade clearing and settlement as well as in
corporate event handling. dbOnE supports different data and business
validation manual capture of instructions, enquiry and repair
functionality. dbOnE communicates and handles trades from different
stock exchange such as XETRA,  XONTRO,EEX European energy exchange as
well as new MTF’s such as (CHI-X, Turquoise).

Requirements gathering and refinement.

Taking change request implementations to completion. 

Unit testing based on Test NG 

Refinement/optimization of reporting layer

Evaluation (POC implementation) of technologies for implementation in
project

Maintain configuration management and release management

Environment: Java/J2EE, XML, XSL, Javascript, AJAX, PL/SQL, Weblogic 10,
Oracle 10g, Ant, Spring, Hibernate.



6. TMS (Transportation Management System), PTTPL. 

Role: Software Engineer

	TMS is a very flexible web based application which helps the freight
service providers in moving their customer’s shipments across various
geographical locations. It is a complete B2B enterprise application
(ERP) and handles all operational, customer relations, financial,
marketing and sales information needs of Air, Ocean and Trucking.

Roles and Responsibilities:

Involved in development of various modules related to Air, Sea, Truck  
and accounts using Jsps, servlets.

Involved in implementation of EJB Components for modules related to Air,
Sea, Truck and accounting modules. 

Involved in preparation of Detail Technical Design Documents.

Involved in discussions for freezing of Change Request (CR) Document and
done impact analysis.

Involved in preparation of unit test cases and unit testing of the
product.

Involved in EDI Implementations for Integration of more than one system.

Involved in Code Review of Change Requests developed by team members.

Environment: Java, Servlets, JSP, Javascript, AJAX, OC4J 1013, Oracle
10g, Ant, Eclipse, CVS, JDBC.

7. ETrans, Reliance Logistics Limited. 

Role: Software Engineer 

E-Trans product is designed for requirements of freight service
providers in moving their customer’s shipments across various
geographical locations. It is a complete B2B enterprise application
(ERP) and handles all operational, customer relations, financial,
marketing and sales information needs of Air, Ocean and Trucking. 

This application is designed to support every operational activity of an
international freight forwarder. Single shipments and consolidations are
processed including the production of all required Transport and custom
documents.

Roles and Responsibilities:

Involved in development of various modules related to Air, Sea, Truck  
and accounts using jsp, servlets.

Involved in implementation of EJB Components for modules related to Air,
Sea, Truck and accounting modules. 

Involved in preparation of Detail Technical Design Documents.

Involved in discussions for freezing of Change Request (CR) Document and
done impact analysis.

Involved in preparation of unit test cases and unit testing of the
product.

Environment: Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Javascript, AJAX, OC4J 1013,
Oracle 10g, Ant, Eclipse, CVS

Education and Training

Xth	

ICSE, 2000 passed out with 62.6%.

XIIth	BIE, Andhra Pradesh, 2002 passed out with 85.8%.

B.E in (Electronics & Communications Engineering)	Anna University, 2006
passed out with 69.7%



Well trained and experienced in Supply Chain Management.

Worked in Trade & Trade Management domain (Clearing and Settlement, Risk
management).

Working on Video Services Implementation on the cloud.

             

                                            TECHPOINT PROFILE

sudheermaddukuri.java@gmail.com		Mob: +91-9701663135

		

