Spring:2 year& current

Hibernate:3 year& current

Webservices:REST & current

Java: 6 year(reflection worked)

Build tools: maven 

DB:oracle/my sql

App;ication server: tomcat /weblogic/jboss

6.6/9/7 days

Ravi Chakali

           Email:   HYPERLINK "mailto:ravichakal@gmail.com" 
cybage.ravi@gmail.com  

								          Mobile: +91-9581199123

Experience

Around 6+ years of Experience in IT industry.

Having 5+ years of Experience in Java Application Development.

 Having 1 years of Experience in Web logic Administration for
Development, Development and QA environments. Handling all the aspects
of Installation, Configuration, Clustering, Deploying, Load Balancing,
Troubleshooting, Maintenance and Performance Tuning of Web Logic Server.

Worked on WebServices (RESTful).

Domain expertise in Energy Sustainability Solutions & Management, PPC
Advertising and Telecom Services.

Involved in analysis, design and development and testing of multi-tier
client-server windows and web-based applications.

Technical expertise in Oracle/Sun Java technologies.

Conversant in all phases of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). 

Worked with framework’s Struts, Spring and Hibernate.

Strong database knowledge of MySQL and Oracle. 

Skill set

OS	Windows XP, 2007 and Linux

Technologies	Struts1.1, Spring 3.0, RESTfull WebServices, Hibernate3.0
and Servlets.

Languages and Tools	Java 1.6, Tomcat 5.5, WebLogic 10g and Jboss-5.1.0.

Databases	Oracle 11g and MySQL.

S/W Design tools	Eclipse 3.5



Work Experience 

Cybage Software:

Software Engineer | Hyderabad | May 2010 – April 2015

Clover Infotech:

Software Engineer | Pune | May 2009 – May 2010

Efkon (India) Pvt Ltd:

Software Programmer | Mumbai | Nov 2008 – April 2009

Responsibilities: 

Worked on projects for the largest Energy Sustainability Solutions
Provider and Internet Advertising companies

Involved deploy in coding phase

Project Experience

Hara.com

Client:  Hara.com. 

Technologies: Java, Jsp, Spring frame work and Rest full WebServices.

Operating Systems: Windows and UNIX.

Domain: Energy Management

Database:  Oracle.

Other tools: JBOSS 5.5 and Maven.

Project Description: 

Hara Software was acquired by Verisae in late 2013. Hara helps energy
and sustainability teams change the way they collect, analyze,
interpret, and act on data.

Hara's affordable cloud-based software platform makes energy and
resource data simple to acquire and act on. As the market leader serving
over 50 global customers, Hara helps energy, facilities, operations, and
sustainability professionals analyze, track, report, and execute against
cost savings opportunities, compliance requirements, efficiency targets,
and operational improvements.

Role and Responsibility in project: 

Worked on sprint basis and attend the spring planning meetings and
giving the estimates

Communication with client on requirement gathering and
understanding/analyzing the product enhancements. 

Involved in generating CDP reports for 2014 which helps in the
assessment of the customers greenhouse gas emission data

Involved in the understanding, design, coding and development 

Involved in the activities of code review and design review team 

Communication with Client on a regular basis on technical constraints,
issues and assumptions and proposing solutions 

Troubleshoot the network, database, application issues quickly and
provide the solution with good turnaround time 

 Involved in the build release and deployment of the components in the
production servers 

Advertise.com

Client:  Advertise.com. 

Technologies: Java, Jsp, ExtJs, Spring (MVC), and Hibernate.

Operating Systems: Windows and UNIX.

Domain: PPC Advertising and Marketing

Database:  MySQL.

Other tools: Tomcat6.0 and Maven.

Project Description:

ABCSearch.com is a pay-per-click (PPC) search engine. For the   most
part, results returned for queries submitted to this type of search
engine are sponsored results in contrast with crawled results like those
presented by Google. Advertisers have created accounts with the ppc
search engines and built their on listings which will appear when
specific keywords are submitted by internet users. Examples of very
large ppc search engines are findwhat.com, kanoodle.com, enhance.com and
overture.com. 

Role and Responsibility in project: 

Involved in designing application and developing Action Classes

Involved in the understanding, design, coding and development 

Involved in code review and design reviews. 

 Involved in the deployment of the project on the Cloud Environment etc.


Involved project deployment 

resolved bug fixes

CVG_CSO_ST

Client:  One of the Industry’s Leading Telecom Customer Service and
Revenue Solutions Provider.

Technologies: Java.

Operating Systems: UNIX.

Domain: Telecom.

Database: Oracle 10g.

Other tools: WebLogic 10.3, Ant.

Project Description: 

Infinys is an integrated software product that provides a flexible,
powerful, and scalable solution for next-generation telecommunications,
IP, and convergent service providers. It combines proven Convergys
applications with the best available third-party applications to
maximize the strengths and features of each. Infinys consists of
applications and components that can support any network or service.

 Infinys is built using a layered architecture that consists of three
distinct layers: extension packages, Infinys components and
applications, and Infinys platform frameworks. 

Infinys components and applications are convergent software components
that address a specific business domain. Applications can be
independently deployed to provide as much functionality as needed and
can be easily integrated with existing BSS/OSS applications to
enhance/augment their capabilities. 

Role and Responsibility in project:  

Created the new Environments setup for development and Testing.

Software and Schema installation using through installer.

Installation of CM (Collection Manager) and WSC through installer.

Deployed the application through console and through Infinysctl script.

Created the Data sources and Connection pooling. 

Deployed the application in cluster environments.

Written the wrapper scripts for Server start and Stop.

Mobile Number Portability (MNP): 

Client:  Vodafone India Pvt Ltd.

Technologies: Java, Servlets, Jsp, Web Services and Java script.

Operating Systems: Windows.

Domain: Telecom.

Database: Oracle 10g.

Other tools: Tomcat5.5.

Project Description:

With the help of MNP (Mobile Number Portability) Customer can able to
take any operators (Like Airtel, BPL and Reliance) Service on the same
number E.g. Airtel customer can able to take the Vodafone service on the
same airtel number.  For MNP customer has to request for port in with
the operator. New operator will send it to the old operator for Port
out. After successful Validation the service form old operator will be
deactivated and the number will be activated with the new operator.

Role and Responsibility in project: 

Developed several JSP Pages and Html for the Web Layer.

Implemented the entire Data access layer using the DAO design pattern. 

Handled the application builds and deployments on the Tomcat Server.

Writing the stored procedures. 

Job Dracula.

Client:  Efkon (India) .

Technologies: Servlets, JSP and Struts.

Operating Systems:  Windows.

Domain: Job Portal.

Database: MySQL.

Other tools: Jboss 5.0. 

Project Description:

Job Dracula Project is a Web Application handling the needs of Job
Advertiser as well as the needs of Job Seeker. The system is mainly
separated into two components. The Company related functions like
editing and post Job Advertisements, manage and shortlist applications,
as well as handle interviews is put together into company Module.. The
second module keeps all functions Job Seeker needs, like searching for
vacancy, editing and keeping resume and cover letter up to date, and get
auto informed by new vacancies, which fit the seekers profile.

Role and Responsibility in project: 

Developed several JSP Pages along with the JSP Standard Template
Libraries for the Web Layer.

Developed several Session Beans (Both Statefull and Stateless) which
communicates with the Hibernate Layer that in turn communicates with the
DAO Layer. 

Configured multiple Struts-Config for global forwards, error forwards
and action forwards. Form level validations are provided using Struts
Validation framework. Also developed Controller, Form beans, and Action
classes for the application.

Implemented the entire Data access layer using the DAO design pattern
and Factory design pattern. Also implemented Service Locator and
Business Delegate Design pattern.

Education

M.C.A from St. Xavier P.G College Affiliated to Osmania University
during 2002-2005, Hyderabad, A.P, India

