From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience)
the following technologies?  

Hibernate                           
                  -  2
year &current                             
                

Spring                  
                                  -  2
year&current                              
                  

Web
Services                                
        -  2
year&current                              
                  

Core
Java                                  
             -  2.year

Design
Patterns                                
    -    used

UML
design                                 
          -    

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)                    -   
Ant   

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools
etc.]

Jboss/jetty server/tomcat/websphere

HIREN VIROJA                                                            
    			                	 

Cell No: 9700458552

Email: hirenviroja007@gmail.com

Professional Summary:

Overall 2+ years of Experience in JAVA and J2EE Technologies. 

Extensive development experience with Java, Servlets, JSP, JDBC,
Web-Services, XML and JavaScript.

Expertise in using with Spring, JSF, EJB, Hibernate and Struts
frameworks. 

Extensive working knowledge in developing front end components using
HTML, CSS, JavaScript.

Good working knowledge of Server like Apache Tomcat, JBoss and Jetty.

Excellent back-end SQL programming skills using MSSQL, Oracle and SQL
Server with PL/SQL.  

Expertise in using Development Tools like Eclipse, My eclipse and Net
beans.

Expertise knowledge in C#, C and Data Structure Programming. 

Very good experience in practicing Agile (Scrum) project management
methods.

Possesses good Interpersonal Skills, team-working attitude, takes
initiatives and very proactive in solving problems and providing good
solutions. 

Experience:

Working as a Jr.Software Engineer in KnoahSoft from Oct-2012 to Present.

Working as a Project Trainee in CDAC from Mar-2012 to Oct-2012

Education:

Post Graduation Diploma From CDAC Hyderadabad, India

BE(Information Technology) From Saurastra University Rajkot, India.

Technical Skills:

Programming Languages	 : 	JAVA, C#, C and Data Structure.

J2SE Technologies		 : 	Core Java, Collections, Threading and JDBC.

J2EE Technologies		 : 	Servlets, JSP and JMS.

Web Technologies		 : 	HTML, XML, Java Script, CSS and JSP Tag Libraries.


Web Servers			 : 	Apache Tomcat and Jetty.

Application Server		 :	JBoss.

Frameworks			 : 	Spring, JSF, EJB, Hibernate and Struts. 

Database			 : 	Oracle, MS SQL and SQL Server. 

Development Tools		 : 	Eclipse, My Eclipse and Net Beans.  

Build Tool			 :	Ant.

Operating Systems		 : 	Windows XP/Vista/7.

Experience at KnoahSoft, Hyderadabad, India:

Product		: 	Harmony System 

Position		: 	Jr. Software Developer

Environment		:	Java, JSF, Spring, Hibernate, Apache Tomcat, Jetty and
JBoss

Database		:	MS-Sql 2008

Utilities/Tools		:	Log4j, Ant & Eclipse

		

Description: Harmony Suite helps businesses improve customer
satisfaction and increase operational awareness by providing contact
centers with a feature rich, modular, easy to use, completely web-based
solution. Harmony supports call recording, quality and performance
management needs and initiatives.   

Duties and Contribution: 

Involved in Design Documentation and Coding of the applications.

Involved in developing code for all activities using MVC 2 architecture
that uses JSF and Spring Framework. 

Developed Spring Controller classes, view beans and descriptor with
Spring AOP, Spring Integration and Spring Security.

Created needed Hibernate XML files and mapped the UI variables and
database variable.

Used HQL (Hibernate Query Language) and SQL queries to insert the data
into database.

Involved in designing of the Web interface using JSP, HTML, JSF Support
Libraries (Rich Faces and Prime Faces) and DOJO.

Involved in Database Design, writing Stored Procedures and Functions.

Involved in bug fixing.

Experience at KnoahSoft, Hyderadabad, India:

Project		: 	Application of Mobile Support for Harmony System   

Position		: 	Jr. Software Developer

Environment		:	Java, JDBC, Spring, Web Service, JSON, Netty, Jetty and
JBoss

Database		:	MS-Sql 2008

Utilities/Tools		:	Log4j, Ant & Eclipse

		

Description: Harmony Application Server Interfaces exposes a REST base
Web service API with payload in JSON and underlying protocols being HTTP
and HTTPS to provide support for Mobile Devices. At a high level API
contains Call Recording and Real Time Monitoring.  

Duties and Contribution: 

Involved in Analysis, Design Documentation and Coding of the
applications.

Involved in developing protocol server to handle incoming request by
using Netty API.

Developed descriptor for Spring-JDBC and Spring IOC support.

Created needed Hibernate XML files.

Involved in developing contract-first SOAP Web Service development.

Involved in developing REST based Web Service development.

Personal Profile:

Date of Birth 		:	23-Jul-1990

Gender			:	Male

Languages Known	:	English, Hindi and Gujarati

	

			

Declaration:

I hereby declare all the above information true and correct to the best
of my knowledge and belief.

Date:									                       

Yours faithfully

