From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience) the following technologies?  



Hibernate                                              -  3 year & current                                                

Spring                                                     -  3.5years & current                                                

Web Services                                        -  7years                                                

Core Java                                               -  8 year

Design Patterns                                    -    singleton

UML design                                           -    used

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)                    -    Maven/ANt   

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools etc.]

Tomcat/PMD/eclipse.

Worked on reflection

DB- oracle/MySql db2

9/13/60days(30days buy back)



Rajendra Barve

Contact:  9763725944

E-Mail: rajendra_barve@yahoo.co.in

A dynamic individual, seeking senior level assignments in the areas of Software Development with an organization of high repute in IT sector



Profile Snapshot





	Core Competencies

	Software Development

	Application Designing

	Client Servicing

	Testing

	Team Management



	Core Competencies

	Software Development

	Application Designing

	Client Servicing

	Testing

	Team Management

An astute professional with nearly 10+ years; hands-on experience in working on Java/J2EE, Web Service, Oracle, MySQL and DB2 .

Understanding of system development life cycle including study of specifications, requirement gathering, designing, integration, testing, documentation and support.

Adept at mapping requirements, custom designing solutions and troubleshooting complex software & application problems.

Experience in handling all types of clients with effective communication.

Pivotal in system analysis and finalization of technical/ functional specifications in an effective manner.

Demonstrated excellence by handling the projects  from start  till final stage .

An effective communicator with good coordination, planning and analytical skills.



Employment Details



Since Oct’10: Persistent System Limited, Goa as Module Lead

Jan’06 to Oct’10: NE Technologies India Pvt. Ltd., Goa as Sr. Software Engineer

Jun’04 to Jun’05: Goa Electronics Limited, Goa as Sr. Software Engineer



Key Result Areas:

	Expertise in writing effective java code with tested-proven design pattern, optimizing SQL queries and improving response time for client-server application.

	Accountable for carrying out system study, designing architecture, maintaining coordination with team members for SRS, system design & architecture, coding, post maintenance after delivery, etc.

	Responsible for identifying technology limitations & deficiencies in existing systems and associated processes, procedures and methods.

	Managing activities right from conceptualization stage to the execution involving finalization of technical specifications and scheduling.

Delivering & implementing the project as per scheduled deadlines and extending post-implementation support to the client.

	Managing the operations with established protocols, guidelines and quality standards to ensure quality deliverables.

	Administering the activities of software development  to meet system requirements, system designs and technical specifications in accordance with quality accredited standards..



Highlights:

	Effectively worked with and handled major clients like IBM, USAM & shopping.com,Goa Government and delivered task on time

	Received an appreciation for timely delivering jasper POC for Castlight Project.

	Holds the distinction of developing a pilot project while exploring newly launched blue mix environment of IBM Cloud servicing PaaS (Platform as a Service).

	

	

	

	

	

	



Previous Experience



Jun’03 to May’04: St. Xavier College, Mapusa (Goa)as Lecturer of Computer Science & Technology



Projects Undertaken



Persistent System Limited, Goa

Title:				SLOE (The Software License Optimization Engine)

Client:				IBM

Period:				Since Mar’14

Environment:			Java 6.0, Rest API, JSP, DOJO, Spring 2.0, hibernate and IBM RTC plug-in with Jazz repository

Database:			Db2

Role:				Module Lead

Team Size:			15

Module Handled:		Handling back end logic for individual products (Ex RHEL,Oracle,Symantec)

Description:	SLOE enables the collection, presentation and manipulation of deployment data , the population and presentation of license entitlement data. It also automate generation of optimized licensing plan.



Title:				Lombardi

Client:				IBM

Period:				Nov’12 to Mar’14

Environment:			Lombardi 7.5, 8.0 & 8.5 and db2

Database:			Db2

Role:				Module Lead

Team Size:			10

Module Handled:		Modeling of the various client’s business process using Lombardi

Description:		Lombardi is IBM tool used for Business process modelling (BPM).



(Refer annexure for rest of the projects)



Technical Skills



Operating Systems:			Windows and Linux 

Web Development Framework:	Struts 1.1 and Hibernate 3.0

Workflows:				Open Symphony (OS) and Workflows 2.8

Languages:				Java and visual Basic(VB6)

Scripting Languages:			Extended JavaScript(ExtJs), Ant, HTML, XML, Java Script and Shell Script

Databases:				Oracle 10g, Postgresql and MySQL,DB2

Web Technologies:			JSP, Servlet, EJB, Ajax, Struts 1.1 Tag libraries, Hibernate 3.0, JSTL and 

Web Services:				Rest Client

Web Server:				Apache Server, Oracle 10.1.3.1 and Tomcat

IDE Used:				Jdeveloper 10.1.3, Intellij IDEA and Eclipse

Reporting Tools:			(Jasper Report) iReport-1.3.1 and Crystal Reports

Design Tool:				(Generate ERD) Oracle Designer

Mapping Tool:				Mercator 6.5

SCM:					VOB,GIT and Jazz

Testing Tool:				Mockito,Junit

 Project Management Tool:		Rally

IBM BPM Tool:				Lombardi (BPM 7, 5, 8.0 &8.5)

Mobility:				Android 4.0 with SQLite database

Cloud Computing:			IBM-SAAS

Cont Integration Tool:			Hudson-Jenkins









Academic Project



Title:			Taj Hermitage

Organization:		ThywayInfotech Private Limited, Goa

Duration:		6 Months

Environment:		Apache Server, Linux, PostgreSQL and PHP

Role:			Responsible for analyzing, designing and coding of the system

Description:	Under this project handling the activities of designing & development of a client server architecture based system to computerize various activities of multi star hotel; generating KOTs, BOTs, billing, reservation, stock maintenance and reports.

							

Academic Qualifications



MCA from Goa University, Goa in 2002

B.Sc. (Physics and Electronics) from Goa University,Gao in 1997



Other Accolade 



Cleared NCST E-Level examination with 81 percentile



PERSONAL DETAILS



Date of Birth:			14th June, 1977

Address:			Satode, Valpoi, TalukaSattari, Goa-403506

Languages:			English, Hindi, Marathi and Konkani




Annexure



Projects Undertaken



Persistent System Limited, Goa

Title:			Univision Omniture Support

Client:			Univision

Period:			Oct’12 to Nov’12

Environment:		Android 4.0, Eclipse, ADT and Emulator

Database:		SQLite

Role:			Module Lead

Team Size:		2

Module Handled:	Capture the every event like Video click, Photo Swipe, News Link Click etc. by finding appropriate location in each of their (video, photo, etc.) activity class and send the data to the site catalyst server

Description:	Univision is Mobile Application which is based on Android 4.0 version. The omniture is java library which is used to identify how various content categories are utilized by visitors, track site usage based on established content hierarchies and understand user navigation through Web site sections. The data captured when various events are triggered (Video Clicking, Photo swiping) using Omniture library and are sent to site Catalyst Server. Depending on the data send through omniture, the statistic of visitor’s contents categories is available on site catalyst server.



Title:			IBM-SAAS

Client:			IBM

Period:			Sep’12 to Oct ’12

Environment:		Core Java 6.0 and DB2 UDB

Database:		Db2

Role:			Module Lead

Team Size:		7

Module Handled:	Handled the entire migration script, loaded new audio parts on development as well as testing server.

Description:	In this project added new 19 audio parts which are available to the customer who has the audio subscriptions and has a prerequisite part assigned. Prerequisite parts are nothing but all parts with an engage entitlement and all meetings parts.



Title:			 Squash (shopping .com)

Client:			Shopping.com

Period:			Apr’12 to Aug’12

Environment:		MySQL, Ruby on Rail and GIT Repository

Database:		MySQL

Role:			Module Lead

Team Size:		6

Module Handled:	Effectively handling entire project

Description:		Squash is relevance tool used to measure the relevance of search engine.



Title:			United Sample

Client:			United Sample

Period:			Jan’11 to Feb’12

Environment:	MySQL, Core Java 5.0, Webservice, Maven & Intellij IDE ,Mockito,Rally,Hudson,Apache ActiveMQ,Apache Camel, Hibernate ,Spring 2.0(Core,context.DAO,AOP,Web-MVC Module) Tomcat 7.0 and GIT Repository.

Database:		MySQL

Role:			Module Lead

Team Size:		6

Module Handled:	Responsible for performing the activities of adding new web services  using rest client  as per client requirements ,Adding new modules, refactoring the code, writing test cases, adding new queries and optimizing queries in Mybatis, maintaining the  code  in  GIT Repository, Tracking Logs for Exceptionin production enviroment. Accountable for handling, optimizing response time, writing scripts for site maintenance, writing functional test using ruby, Writing unit test using Java Mockito.

Description:	An innovator in online market research, uSamp offers organizations on-demand access to audiences for developing better products and services by turning online data and feedback into actionable insights. uSamp's solutions transform the way companies gain intelligence to make faster decisions about their products and services by tapping into uSamp's 6.5 million global panel of survey respondents. 



Title:			OneRackspace_Offshore

Client:			Rackspace U.S., Inc

Period:			Dec’10 to Dec’10

Environment:	Rackspace Enviroment

Database:		MySQL

Role:			Sr. Software Engineer  

Team Size:		6

Module Handled:	Foundation portal is application that will be used by the rackspace support team to raise credit memos to their customers. Our team was basically involved in the portal development 



Title:			HeartBeat-MTP

Client:			Heartbeat

Period:			Oct’10 to Dec’10

Role:			Sr. Software Engineer  

Team Size:		27

Module Handled:	Responsible for building the Maven Script to download the project from CVS, configure it .So the manual changes what normally done in order to installed the project would be automated using Maven script      

Description:	Heartbeat Profiler is a CRM software solution designed to weave information about opinion leaders and speakers profiles into a unified, meaningful system.Profiler combines all of your important profile data such as speaking history, publication activity, associations, clinical trials, and competitive activity, offering a well-structured, consolidated view of your relationship with each KOL



NE Technologies India Pvt. Ltd.,Goa

Title:			Goa Project

Client:			Government of Goa

Period:			Oct’06 to Oct’10

Role:			Team Leader      

Framework:		Hibernate 3.0, Strut (1.1) and J2EE Framework

Environment:		Oracle Application Server 10.1.3.1, Red Hat Linux 4 and Windows XP

Database:		Oracle 10g

Architecture:		Model-View-Control (MVC)

Team Size:		27

Description:	It was an attempt to expand its domain the company has undertaken Project from Government of Goa to computerize various departments. Each Department has its account section, Establishment section and domain specific section as per the functionalities of department. Goa project is client/server application with complete security features exposing each section only after authenticating the end-user. It also provide various statistical, MIS, DCP reports as per the requirement of departments.



Title:			PO (Pre-Order Gateway) Maps

Client:			VE, Qwest, VW

Period:			Jan’06 to Sept’06

Framework:		J2EE Framework

Environment:		Win XP, Mercator 6.5 and XMLSpy

Team Size:		4

Module Handled:	Responsible for developing XSDs, generating Type-trees, coding for mapping data from XML to EDI and vice versa using mercator tool and generating test cases

Description:	US telecom market involves ILEC and CLEC wherein ILEC (Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier) are established telecom service providers (carriers) having its infrastructure   within given area. CLEC (Competitive Local Exchange Carrier) is competitive telecom service provider which services the clients with its own services in addition to the services provided by ILEC.

The PO Gateways associated with each CLEC, which need to transfer collected data from a customer to the ILEC in EDI (electronic Data Interchange) format. ILEC specify certain rules and norms for mapping the data. In order to map this data we have used Mercator 6.5 tool which converts XML data to EDI format.  XSDs created in XML-SPY generate Type-trees which are used by mercator tool to map the data.



Goa Electronics Limited, Goa

Title:			PWD Water Complaint Centre

Client:			Public Work Department (PWD) –Government of Goa	

Period:			Jan’05 to Jun’05

Framework:		J2EE Framework

Environment:		Windows 2000, MS VB 6.0, MS Access and Seagate Crystal Reports

Team Size:		2

Module Handled:	Handled the activities of analyzing, designing, coding and testing of project

Description:	The system was developed to run a complaint centre of PWD office automating the task of registering, sorting complaints according to Assistant engineers heading PWD office in each taluka of Goa. At the end of day system could generate various reports like pending complaints, response of assistant engineer, etc.



Title:			Employee Maintenance System

Client:			Directorate of Accounts –Government of Goa

Period:			Aug’04 to Dec’04

Environment:		MS Windows 2000, MS VB 6.0 and MySQL as Database

Team Size:		2

Module Handled:	Handled the activities of analyzing, designing, coding and testing of project

Description:	This application was developed to keep details of government employees and Pensioners with timely calculations of all allowances, basic, pension detail and reduced   pension at regular interval.



Title:			CyberTran

Client:			Goa Electronics Ltd.

Period:			Jun’04 to Aug’04	

Environment:		Preparing SRS, coding, testing and implementing the software

Team Size:		2

Module Handled:	Handled the activities of analyzing, designing, coding and testing of project

Description:	CyberTran is an in-house Software designed and developed for handling ‘Cyberage Students’ schemes complaints. System provides the facility of receiving, modifying, sorting complaints and sending mails; maintaining track record of total computer system distributed, replacement under warranty and direct purchase of computer spare parts.