Spring:

Hib 

Webservices:

Big data

11/

Anil Kumar Dasari

Mobile : +91-9900608709   Email : dasarianil1988@gmail.com



Objective





Intend to build a challenging career with an Organization where in I can
explore myself fully and can contribute my skills for the development of
Organization and self







Professional  Summary



5.5 years of professional experience in development of web based
Enterprise application using Java/J2EE technologies.

Over 4 year of development experience of Web Applications.

Around 6 months of experience on POCs on Hadoop , MongoDB, Cassandra,
Hbase.

Extensively worked on various frameworks like Struts 1.2, Spring 2.0,
3.0 (IOC, AOP, Transaction Management, DAO and JMS), Hibernate 3.0, JPA
2.0 , JAX-WS, Jersey Restful Webservices and Junit.

Good exposure on Hadoop Ecosystem (Map Reduce, Hbase, Hive)

Good exposure on popular NoSqls (Hbase, Cassandra, MongoDB)

Trained professional on Mongo DB by Mongo DB University and Certified.

Extensive work experience in Waterfall and Agile Methodology of software
development.

Hands on experience on Oracle SOA, BPM.

Experience in designing and prototyping user interfaces for intranet,
web applications using various scripting languages such as HTML, CSS,
JavaScript and AJAX.

Exposure on project management tools like Version One, ALM and JIRA.

Extensive experience on Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) including
Requirement Analysis, Documentation (both functional and technical),
Design and Implementation.

Involved in all phases of Project execution.

Good knowledge on PL/SQL, Mokito, Jquery, XSD, XSLT. 

Ability to adapt to new technologies, environments quickly.



Education



2009     B.Tech (ECE) from Koneru Lakshmaiah College of Engineering,
Guntur with 86% 

2005     Board of Intermediate Education, AP with 96%

2003     Board of Secondary Education, AP with 85%

	



Technical Skills





Programming Languages	Java 5 & 6.

Frameworks	Spring 2.0, 3.0, Struts 1.2, Hibernate 3.0, JPA 2.0, Jersey
2.0, Junit, JAX-WS, Jquery

Defect Tracking Tools:	JIRA, Version One, ALM

Databases	Oracle 11g

Version Control	CVS, TFS, Perforce

Web/Application Servers:	Apache Tomcat 7, Weblogic 10.3

Build and Deployment	AntHill Pro, Jenkins

Other Tools:	Maven, ANT, JDeveloper, MQ Explorer, Putty, XML Spy, SQL
Developer, SOAP UI

Operating Systems	Unix, Win 7, Windows XP





	Professional Accomplishments





	Awarded as STAR performer in Dell.

Awarded as STAR performer in Thomson Reuters



Professional Experience:

	

Thomson Reuters. Bangalore

Senior Software Engineer						       June 2014 - Till Date

Software Engineer							       Jan 2013 - May 2014

Project			: 	SOPHIA 

Description:

SOPHIA is an Editorial and Content Management platform. This application
helps to create , manage , store and deploy content on to two major
products of Thomson Reuters named Web of Science (WoS) and Web of
Knowledge (WoK)

Responsibilities:

Involved in requirement analysis, design and implementation.

Involved in all phases of project execution.

Working as both Services (Java) and BPM developer

Working on end to end functionality

Environment:

Java 1.6, Spring 3.0 (IOC, Transaction Management, DAO, JMS, Spring
ORM), JPA 2.0, Jersey and SOAP Webservices, IBM MQ, Oracle BPM, BPEL,
Oracle 11g, XSD, XML, Maven, Junit.

Thomson Reuters. Bangalore

Senior Software Engineer						       Apr 2015 – May 2015

POC			: 	ALUM (Article Level Usage Metrics)

Description:

This application helps to identify the popular articles based on usage
and number of citations. 

Environment:

Java 1.6, Map Reduce, Hbase, Jersey Rest, D3.js (for data visualization)

Dell. Bangalore

Technical Analysis Senior Associate                                     
     Jan 2010 – Feb 2012

Project     			:	  Rental Financial System (RFS)

Description:	

	The RFS (Rental Financial Systems) application is a web application
used basically 

to deal with the billing modules for EHI which includes a set of modules
like Receivable Management, Cash Management and Invoice Inquiry.

Responsibilities:	

Involved in requirement analysis, design and implementation.

Built HTML prototypes.

Direct interaction with the onsite coordinators for requirement
clarification.

Perform rigorous Unit Testing, writing Unit Test Cases and JUnit Tests.

Performed Functional/Code Review for Invoice Inquiry Module.

Acted as build and deployment coordinator

Environment:

Java 1.5, Spring 2.0 (IOC, Transaction Management, DAO, AOP, Spring
ORM), Hibernate 3.0, Struts 1.2, Servlets, JSP, JSTL , Oracle 11g, XSD,
XML, Ant, Junit.

Personal Details





Name       		:	Anil Kumar Dasari.

Date of Birth 		:	15th May, 1988.

