AMIT KUMAR                                            Email Id:
amrock2802@gmail.com 

                                                                        
                                                                     
Contact No:+91 -9987495237

                                                                        
                                                                        
               



Profile Summary

SUMMARY [Project Controller/PMO/Project Management]

A Graduate with over 6.9 Years of experience in Telecom Project &
Operation.

Adept in supervising telecom site activities, such as Infra and BTS
installation & Commissioning.

Pivotal for Project planning, Monitoring & Controlling and closing
process group as well as the process preparation, Documentation and
Project MIS.

Presentation of Project updates and progress to Project Sponsors by
using Logical tools such as S-Curve, Fishbone, and Burn down chart etc.

Completed the “Project Management Professional” 35 Hours Training. 

Have strong problem solving capabilities, analytical skills and ability
to learn new technologies. 

Good Team Player, proactive, positive attitude and have never give up
approach.

Proficient in handling PMO activity.







Work Experience

SAMSUNG INDIA ELECTRONICS LIMITED

 (Apr ‘13 – Till date)	As an Senior Executive (PMO) in ZTE Telecom I
Pvt LTD

Samsung Telecommunications is one of five business units within  
HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samsung_Electronics" \o "Samsung
Electronics"  Samsung Electronics , belonging to the   HYPERLINK
"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samsung_Group" \o "Samsung Group"  Samsung
Group . Samsung is recognized as one of the leading and most enduring
name in the world of mobile technology and fastest growing company for
Telecom equipment and network solution.



ZTE TELECOM (I) PVT LTD

 (Feb ‘08 – Mar’13)

(Feb’08 – Apr’09 Through Adecco flexion)	As an Assistant Manager
(PMO) in ZTE Telecom I Pvt LTD

ZTE is a leading global provider of telecommunication equipment and
network solutions. ZTE’s product range is the most complete in the
world, covering virtually every sector of the wire line, wireless,
terminal and service market.



GTL LTD

(Apr ‘07 – Jan’08)

(through Global Innovsource solution Pvt Ltd)	As a Project Coordinator
in GTL LTD.

GTL is a leading Network services company, bringing together various
technologies for addressing the Networking, communication &
Infrastructure maintenance needs of globally distributed Enterprises and
Telecom carries.



Academic Qualifications

Bachelor of Engineering ( E&C), GIMT, New Delhi (2007)

Diploma in Electronics and Communication engineering, GIMT, New Delhi
(2003)

BSEB Board (10th) HNHS, Barhetta  (Bihar) (1999)

 



CERTIFICATIONS

Certification in ‘Project Management Professional ‘ 35 Hours
Training.

 



Computer Skills

Project Management Tools : Primavera (P6)

Operating System                :  Win 9x, Win 2000, Win 2003, Win
Vista, Win 2008, Windows 7, Windows 8.

MS Office                             :  Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio,
MS Project and Outlook Express.

Web Technologies               :  HTML



Projects

SAMSUNG INDIA ELECTRONICS LIMITED	Duration : Apr’13 to Till Date 
working As a Senior executive (PMO).

Reliance 4G LTE project	Duration : Apr 2013 – Till Date

Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd 4G Project as a part of PMO Team and reporting
to PMO Head.

Responsible for Finalizing report templates.

Support to deployment team to prepare Project Roll-out Plan.

Coordination with RJIL team to set-up IT for Project i.e eRoom, GIS &
WAS.

Coordination with Internal department get support on various points.

Monitoring MIS report prepared by MIS-Coordinator.

Monitoring and controlling on project progress.

Support to project team to prepare various Process.

ZTE TELECOM (I) PVT LTD	Duration: Feb’08 to Apr’09 work As a Project
Coordinator Through Adecco flexion.

                : May’09 to Mar’13 work as an Assistant Manager PMO

Project 4

Reliance 2G Swap and UMTS Project	Duration : Sep 2010 – Mar 2013

Reliance 2G SWAP & 3G GSM Project in 10 States of India as a part of PMO
and reporting to the Project Director & PMO Head.

Making a project plan consult with project Core team member for all 10
circles.

Finalization of report templates for circle as well as corporate
customer.

Finalizing all the process with in the project consultant with project
core team members. 

Attending daily con-call with Customer & Circle team.

Monitoring the project implementation for smooth implementation to all
10 circles.

Follow up for the planned site and ensure the achievement of the same.

Coordination with logistic team to equipment delivery on time to sites.

Ensuring clearance of all site punch point and site implementation as
per ZTE quality standard.

Monitoring for all the report from circle.

Vetting of reports before circulating to higher management & corporate
customer.

Attending all internal & external meetings and record the MOM.

Follow up with circle project team for closing all the project related
issues.

Coordination with VM for availability of sub-contractors on time.

Follow up with circle team for ATPs paper getting signed

Monitoring the collation ATPs forms from circle and the same submitting
to commercial team for invoices.

Responsible for getting ATPs docs sign-off from Customer at DAKC level.

Responsible for Project monitoring to update the project progress status
track the updated as per WO/PO.

Customer interface at DAKC level ( RCOM NHQ)

Responsible for getting SCC signed from RCOM NHQ Team and Planning head.

Resource tracking for the project.

Project 3

ETDB GSM Project

	Duration : Oct 2009 – Sep 2010

ETDB GSM Project in 3 states of India as a part of PMO and reporting to
the Project Director & PMO Head. 

Responsibility: 

Monitoring for smooth project implementation to all 3 circles.

Follow up for the planed site and ensure the achievement of the same.

Coordination with logistic team to equipment delivery on time to sites.

Ensuring clearance of all site punch point and site implementation as
per ZTE quality standard.

Monitoring for all the report from circle to MIS Coordinator.

Validating to reports before circulating to higher management &
Corporate customer.

Attending all internal & external meetings and record the MOM.

Follow up with circle project team for closing all the project related
issues.

Coordination with VM for availability of sub-contractors on time.



Project 2

Reliance CDMA Phase IV & WIN Project

	Duration : Feb 2008 to Sep 2009

Spreading reliance CDMA Win Project in 7 states of India as a project
coordinator & Reporting to the project Director 

Responsibility:

Daily coordination for project implementation to all circles.

Daily follow up for the planed site and ensure the achievement of the
same with close coordination with the circle and reliance HQ (DAKC)
Team.

Preparation of reports like issue tracking, Gap analysis etc and
transmitting them to the top management for facilitating them decision
making process.

Monitoring reports prepared by documentation and MIS executive.

Preparing weekly plan in consultation with all the team members.

Attending all project review meeting.

Working in coordination with logistics to ascertain the necessities for
components, spare parts & consumables.

Ownership to guide and get 100% corrects ATP forms from all circles.

Rechecking of ATP documents before submitting commercial.

GTL Limited	Duration : Apr 2007 to Jan 2008 work As a Project 
Coordinator

through Global Innovsource solution Pvt Ltd.



Project 1 

Nortel – BSNL Project 

	Duration : Apr 2007 to Jan 2008 As a Project  Coordinator

BSNL- Nortel GSM Expansion project at Jharkhand in the Network
Engineering Division

Monitoring project Activities

Responsibility: 

Involved in Planning Manpower movement, allocating task & rendering
support on daily basis.

Involved in Carrying out defined process and further develop processes,
spotting key activities and formalizing the way in which they are
handled

Involved in Co-ordination with site engineers (Civil, electrical & BTS)
& Customer in order to ensure work progress punch point clearance &
avoid delays.

Involved in Attending conferences & review meeting with customer & to
discuss activities and issues related to projects.

Involved in Ensuring quality in collation with QA before handing over
the site to customer.

Involved in Daily projects status reporting and summarizing.

Involved in Project activity planning.

Involved in Escalation and monitoring of issues.

Involved in Customer presentation (Progress & Plan) at circle level.

Significant Achievement	Gain a good experience as a fresher in a very
short duration in GSM Environment and with leading Telecom sector.

Achieved good experience in project management field. 

Received incentives for excellent performance.

Received appreciation mails from customer & maintained relationship with
them



About Myself

A Brief Description 

	

With a pleasing personality and my nature being flexible, I adapt myself
to my surroundings with ease. I’m full of energy and optimism. Highly
ambitious and work hard sincerely to register solid achievements. Have a
strong will power and take on challenges with determination and
self-confidence. I’m a sporting person and have courage to take
failures in my stride. Gifted with a creative, innovative and
imaginative mind. My open mind is prone to receive ideas coming from all
directions and thus enrich itself intellectually and culturally beyond
all expectations. 





Objective	

To obtain a position that utilizes my experience and expertise in
project management, providing opportunities to grow bi-dimensionally,
both professionally and personally. 



Personal Memoranda

	Date of Birth	       :  31 Jan 1985 

Contact No.                :  +91-9987495237

Passport Details         :  H5767589

Material Status           :  Married

Language Spoken     :   English, Hindi, Maithili & Bhojpuri

Present Address         :  Flat No B 204, B “WING” Guruwatika,
Sec-12, Khargarh, Navi Mumbai                                           
                  

                                       410210

Permanent  Address  :  487-C, Road No-04, Ashok  Nagar, Ranchi,
Jharkhand - 834002





All the information provided by me in this resume is correct and I have
not knowingly omitted any related information, which would have a
bearing on my employment with you. 

Page   PAGE  2  of   NUMPAGES  4 

