 RAKESH TIWARY

Address                                                                 
                                                       E-Mail:
raakeshtiwary@gmail.com

	 Phone Num: 9972488150

LN Layout,

Marathalli                                                              
                          

Bangalore, India, 560037

                                  

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY

Total Experience: 6 years and  4 months

Designation: Lead Consultant

Company: Genpact Headstrong

Designation: Senior Associate Projects

Company: Cognizant.

Designation: Application Developer.

Company: Oracle India Pvt. Ltd.

Designation: Software Engineer.

Company: Symphony Services.

Designation:    Software Engineer Trainee.

Company:       Mahindra Satyam.

                                                                       
TECHNICAL EXPERTISE

Operating Systems	                                       Windows, Linux

Programming:         

    Technology:  	                                       Java/J2ee, 
SOAP/Rest Web Services,

						   Spring DI, AOP, Declarative Transaction Management

						   MVC, Autosys, Angular JS

    Web Framework: 	                                       Stripes,
Wicket

    Persistence Framework:                              Hibernate

    Build Technology:                                        Maven

Web/App Servers:                                            Tomcat, Web
Logic, Web Sphere

DBMS			                                       Oracle 10g, DB2 9.7 

Tools			                                       Eclipse (Galileo),
JDeveloper

Domain Knowledge	                                       Banking, Supply
Chain, Telecom

                                                                        
       PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

1. Project : Loan Pricing Application

    Client: Morgan Stanley                                              
                                             Date: May-2014 – Present.

    Employer: Genpact Headstrong         	                              
                                   Role: Lead Consultant

The loan pricing is a conglomerate of 3 application namely mortgage
pricerr, TL pricer and PlA pricer. This application help the business
users to calculate rates , profit and all while shelling out loan. It
takes care of rating of the customer and amortization calculation ,
interest rate calculation etc. This application interacts with multiple
3rd party to get the market data and other parameters required to make
the calculation.

Responsibilities: 

Involved in the scratch development of the mortgage pricer including
design discussion..

Developed a java api for data migration from old platform to new ,
single handely.

Interaction with business users and Deployment and release of the
application to prod environment.

Tools/ Technology used: Java/J2ee, Spring(All Module), Angular JS,
Autosys Jobs

2. Project : Number Translation Service

    Client: Huawei                                                      
                                     Date: Dec-2013 – May 2014.

    Employer: CTS           	                                           
                                    Role: Team Lead

This Product deals with Free Phone services. The subscriber of this
product will be some Telecom service provider like Airtel who can then
provide Single Contact point for their customer and at runtime can
translate the and connect to the most suitable number. The single point
of contact for the customer is called Subscriber Number which follow the
access code (like 1800). 

Responsibilities: 

Involved in Development of the major modules NTS and Route Tree.

Leading a team of 7, and responsible for the on time completion and
delivery of assignment.

Providing the install and upgrade package for all the releases including
Installation and set up documents.

Tools/ Technology used: C++, SNE Developer, Huawei NGIN Platform

                                                                        
       PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

3. Project : Supply Chain Orchestration

    Client: Oracle                                                      
                                      Date: Jan-2012 – Dec 2013

    Employer: Oracle           	                                        
                          Role: Application Developer

Supply Chain Orchestration (SCO) is a product from Oracle that will
enables customers to orchestrate and create supplies across
heterogeneous execution systems (both internal/external) using
configurable business processes that are authored and managed by
business users. This also allows customers to track and monitor the
progress of the supplies throughout its lifecycle across heterogeneous
systems. It also enables to dynamically induct a functional layer like
shipping to SCO and also to register a external heterogeneous execution
system.

Responsibilities: 

Involved in Analysis, Design and Development of the major modules.

Working on one of the four architectural layer of Supply Chain
Orchestration (SCO).

Participation in Designing ADFBC and SOA layer. Individual contributor
in writing ADFBC Services, Data Modeling and SOA composites.

Building of major chunk of the Functional Task Layer involved including
Transfer, Buy, Approval.

Writing JUnits using ADFBC Test framework..

Tools/ Technology used: Java/J2ee, JDeveloper, Oracle SOA Suite 11g,
Application Development Framework (ADF), Oracle DB.

Methodology:  Agile Development Methodology (Scrum/Sprint).

4. Project Mobiliser

    Client: Sybase Paybox, Germany                                      
                            Date: Apr-2010 – Jan 2012.

    Employer: Symphony Services	                                        
                          Role: Software Developer

Mobiliser is a core mBanking cum mPayment product from Sybase Paybox. It
enables commercial organization like bank to integrate mobility to their
service portfolio in bank agnostic manner. It is an extendible and
portable core product with a set of standard services, while providing
flexibility to add services demanded by specific client, by customizing
the product. It is portable to most of the existing DBs including
ORACLE, DB2, POSTGRES, SYBASE_ASE and App Servers like WAS. This core
product is being used by various interfaces including WEB, SMS, USSD,
WAP, Rich Client, STK, IVR etc. The product, on basis of services, has
been modularized into four sub part namely- Banking Mobiliser, Payment
Mobiliser, TopUp Mobiliser and Remittance Mobiliser. All the various
modules are collection of several closely related services. 

Responsibilities: 

Involved in Analysis, Design and Development of the major modules.

Customizing the core product and the Corresponding web Interface
interacting with the core product for transitive clients. 

Porting the web app and the core product (mobiliser) to the DB2 and
WebSpshere.

Mavenising the existing code base from ant, to build packaged structure
of closely related services. So that 

The customer could opt for required package depending upon his need.

Tools/ Technology used:  Eclipse Galileo, Java/J2ee 1.5 , Hibernate
3.0,Spring DI,AOP,Txn Management, Stripes 1.5, Oracle 10g  and DB2 9.7 
Databases,  Maven 2.2, Tomcat  6.0 ,Web Sphere 6.1.

Methodology:  Agile Development Methodology (Scrum/Sprint).

5. Project Title: Secure Transportation and Access in Total (STAT)

    Client:       Mahindra Satyam                                       
                                Date: Dec 2008-June 2009

 Employer: Mahindra Satyam	                                             
                     Role: Junior Developer

Description: It deals with the issues regarding the security of
Passenger moving in a vehicle/Bus.  STAT stands

For Secure Transportation and Access in Total. As the name suggests, the
product focuses on the solution to

Monitor the vehicle for the security of a person. It provides robust
security by maintaining all routes and

Personal information of passengers as well as vehicle. Thus service
provided by the product commensurate to a

Security personnel providing security 24x7 bases. The product has the
capacity of adroit handling all the

Capricious emergency situation which can occur while is on move and was
also supposed to be integrated with authorities to deal with those
situations.

POC: The Proof of Concept (POC) part was to track a robot, moving over
the lab, on a digital map of the lab using Socket programming. The robot
is connected to the network through a common system. It is also
connected to sonar based navigation system mounted over the lab to
simulate the GPS.

Responsibilities: POC Development. 

Tools/ Technology used: Net Beans 6.0, java/J2EE 1.5

                                                                  
EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION 

             

                                                                  
ACHEIVMENTS 

• Awarded with a You Made a Difference Certificate by Symphony
Services for performance and for the role played in achieving
exceptionally good CSAT.

• Awarded with a MERIT CERTIFICATE by Satyam Learning Center for
securing second position in  training program.

• Awarded a MERIT CERTIFICATE in National Mathematics Olympiad B-Level
and a passing certificate in the

   Same contest at A-Level.

• Worked under Help Age India for raising money to help the elderly
citizen of India.

                                                                        
    PERSONAL DETAILS   

      Date of Birth:                05th April 1986.

      Languages Known:      English, Hindi.

      Hobbies:                        Blogging, Listening Music.

       Sex:                                       Male.

       Marital Status:                    Single.

Rakesh Tiwary	Page   PAGE  1  of   NUMPAGES \*Arabic  4 	               

Course	University/Board	Year	Marks

B.E.

	BIT Sindri	2004-2008	77%

XII	DAV Koylanagar	2003	76.8%



X	DAV Barora	2001	81.8%

 

