Resume

Jethram Boda             	         	                                
Email: avajeeth@gmail.com

                                                                        
           Phone: +91 9701264890

Professional Summary:

7+ years of experience in the field of Java and J2EE technologies.

Strong experience over Servlets, JSP, Struts, Spring, Hibernate.

Thorough knowledge of OOPS concepts.

Experience in Development and Integration of web-based applications
using WebSphere Application server and Tomcat.

Good Inter Personal skills, team player and initiator.

Work Profile:

Working as Senior Consultant in Cap Gemini, Hyderabad, Since Nov’12-
Till Date.

Worked as Senior Software Engineer with Accenture, Hyderabad, From
July’10- Nov’12.

Worked as Software Engineer with Mahindra Satyam, Hyderabad, from
Dec’07- Oct’09.

Worked as Software Engineer with Syntel India pvt Ltd, Mumbai, from
March’06- Dec ‘07.

     

                                        

EDUCATION:

B.Tech in Computer Science & Engineering from Nagarjuna University.  

Technical Profile:

Operating Systems 		  : Windows 98/2000/NT

Languages& Scripting	  : C, C++, Java, HTML, XML

Web Server	   		  : Apache Tomcat  

Application Server 	   	  : WebSphere Application 7.0

Java Technologies 		  : JDBC, Servlet, JSP, EJB2.0

Database 			  : Oracle

Framework                           : Struts, Spring, Hibernate

PROJECT DETAILS:

Project#1    	:         Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE)
(Dec’12-till date)

Client		:	Michelangelo Zurich UK General Insurance(UKGI)

Role		:	Team Member

Responsibility :         Understanding requirements and Coding

Team Size 	:	15

Environment	:	Java, Spring, Hibernate, Guidewire, Oracle

Server		: 	WebSphere Application 7

Description	:

CUE is the Claims Underwriting Exchange, which is used by insurers to
support the insurance claims process and the insurance underwriting
process to assist in identifying fraud around non-disclosure of claims.

The Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) is a central database of
motor, home and personal injury insurance claims. Insurers add and
update CUE claims data via batch processes and can now enquire claims
data using CUE Data Request Service (DRS) web service.

The Zurich’s new claims system, the Guidewire ClaimCenter needs to be
integrated with Experian’s exposed services to achieve the following
business requirements:

•	Perform CUE query to retrieve matched claims for fraud detection.

•	Update claims data (new/reopen/amended claims) to CUE database via
batch process on a daily basis.  

•	Update closed claim details to CUE database via batch process on
weekly basis

Project#2    	:         Cathay Pacific Airways (CPA)
(July’11-Nov’12)

Client		:	Cathay Pacific Airways

Role		:	Team Member

Responsibility :         Understanding requirements and Coding

Team Size 	:	25

Environment	:	Java, Spring, Hibernate, RAD 8.0, Oracle

Server		: 	WebSphere Application 7

Description	:

Cathay Pacific Airways web channel Implementation has been redesigned to
have the services re-used by future channel implementations like Mobile
etc.

The architecture of the application is designed in such a way that it
has most of the cross cutting frameworks excluded from the application,
by thus providing a loosely coupled architecture.

Project#3    	:         User Management Tool (UMT) (July’10-June’11)

Client		:	Mitsubishi Motors Europe

Role		:	Team Member

Responsibility :         Understanding requirements and Coding

Team Size 	:	6

Environment	:	Java, Spring, Hibernate, RAD 8.0, Oracle

Server		: 	WebSphere Application 7.0

Description	:

The user management tool (UMT) in the Mitsubishi Partner Portal (MPP)
will allow administrative users to create new user accounts for the MPP
and request for access to other business applications for these user
accounts. Therefore the UMT will include a workflow to process create
user and access request to the business application. Administrative
users will also be able to maintain user accounts, request for new
application access or remove application access and delete existing user
account. Additionally Super administrative users will be able to
maintain overall UMT tool. This will include register for a new
application, maintain an existing application, maintain email text, get
an overview of all the requests and their status and get an overview of
existing portal users and their applications. 

Project#4    	:          Retail Merchandising System
(Jan’08-July’09)

Client		:	Abercrombie & Fitch, New Albany, USA 

Role		:	Team Member

Responsibility :         Understanding requirements and Coding

Team Size 	:	25

Environment	:	Java, Servlet, JSP, Struts, Oracle

Server		: 	WebSphere Application 5.1

Description	:

                      

The application contains features of tracking Item flow against an order
right from merchant to customer delivery based on the user login. This
module will provide search based on the Brand, Department, PO, Key Item,
Web Set Date and Actual Set Date. User can able to select the fields to
be displayed by setting his profile for each tab. It has the following
tabs Merchant, Copywriter, Web Designer, DC Coordinator, DTC Inventory
Manager, Customer View, Visual Items, Mass KI Update and ITS Profile.

             

              This portal helps clients to do their business from a
single platform. Through Item Tracking System Users will be able to
expand the view by clicking on the individual key items. The users will
be able to page left or right to access all available columns that are
defined to the view they are accessing. The program should pull in all
applicable data from the database and build an object that can be used
to pull in the particular columns that are applicable to the view
selected.

Project#5    	:         Global New Accounts (NASP) (Jan’07-Dec’07)

Client		:	American Express

Role		:	Team Member

Team Size 	:	25

Responsibility :         Understanding requirements and Coding.
Providing production support

Environment	:	Java,Servlet,JSP, EJB, IBM Mainframe, DB2, MQ

Server		: 	WebSphere Application 5.1

Description	: 

               The system core function is to process new applications
for American Express Credit cards. It is designed to process new
applications for US, Canada and Europe market.

The main processing involves verifying applications for Fraud check
(Amex Check, Duplicate Check, and other Frauds), real time credit bureau
review, scoring, decision, card assignment and creating different down
stream files for further processing of application in various downstream
systems. Also the system also tracked the source of the application
merchant wise, commission payment, tracking product Performances for
future projections. The New Accounts service Portal (NASP) is being
developed to facilitate the card application process.   The New Accounts
Portal will be similar to existing portals developed for other Service
Delivery Utilities and will capitalize on some existing portal
functionality. 

Project#6   	:         Outside purchasing System (OPS)
(March’06-Dec’06)

Client		:	DCX, USA

Role		:	Team Member

Responsibility :         Understanding requirements and Coding

Team Size 	:	10

Environment	:	Java, Servlet, JSP, Struts

Server		: 	WebSphere Application 5.1

Description	:

          The DaimlerChrysler outside Purchase Service (OPS) System
provides a facility for collecting, tracking and reporting information
related to the projects with different suppliers. The purpose of this
system is to provide certain details from the supplier end for each
project as to how the invoiced amount has been utilized on a monthly
basis. This application enforces some discipline from the supplier to
assign and maintain the resource types (e.g. Engineer, Program Manager
Etc.) for a project. This application brings in more accountability for
the expenses invoiced by the supplier on a monthly / periodic basis.

