     					          				Email-ID:   HYPERLINK
"mailto:swapna.anchuri@yahoo.com"  swapna.anchuri@yahoo.com 

Swapna   			                  				Mobile    : 91-8722137627		 

Summary:

       Having 3+ years  experience in the IT Industry as a Software
Engineer.

       To apply best of my knowledge and ideas  in the field of Software
development towards attainment of the business aspirations of the
Company. Further, I would wish to explore other productive opportunities
and contribute to overall growth of the organization.

Professional Summary:

Worked in designing, developing web based applications using Core
Java(Collection framework, Multi Threading), J2EE(JDBC, SERVLET, JSP).

Hands on experienced in Presentation Tier development by using JSP, and
STRUTS Tiles Framework.

Hands on experience in Persistent Tier development using JDBC, HIBERNATE
3.0.

Hands on experience in Restfull Web Services.

Hands on experience in Spring 3.0 (IOC Module, ORM Module) Framework.

Hands on experience using web application framework including STRUTS 2.

Hands on experience using Ajax, CSS, Html.

Hands on experience using application Apache Tomcat Server.

Experience in creating Database tables, Triggers, stored procedures,
function in Oracle.

Good Communication, Interpersonal skills and team player.

Experience in Unit testing tools like TestNG.

Experience on Tools like Putty,WinSCP.

Strong programming, coding, analytical, problem solving and conceptual
skills.

Ability to work in a fast paced, collaborative environment and handle
multiple concurrent projects.

Educational Details:

B.Tech(CSE) Sri Sai Insitute of Technolgy and
Science(JNTUA),Rayachoty,A.p.

Professional Experience:

Currently working as a Software Engineer in Cisco Systems. from April
2014 to till date.

Worked as a Software Engineer in Aditya Birla Group. from August  2011
to April 2014.

PROJECTS:

Project #1:

Project Name:	HCS

Role	Team Member

Organization	Cisco Systems

Duration	April ‘14 - till date

Team Size	30

Environment

	Language: Java

FrameWork: Web Services(RestFull)

Testing Tools: TestNG.    

Server : Apache Tomcat.

O/S: Linux.



Description:

      Cisco Hosted Collaboration Solution (HCS) is a next-generation
unified communications and

collaboration platform for service providers who want to offer unique
Cisco collaboration technologies

using hosted and managed models. Cisco HCS is a distributed system,
consisting of Cisco hardware and

software products, that work together to enable service providers to
offer the following services to their

customers. 

       

Responsibilities:

Involved in the analysis of the Application.

Involved in Writing web services as per requirement.

Involved in Deployments and Requirement gathering.

Bug Fixing and Maintenance of the product.

Client Side View and Validations using JavaScript and JQuery.

Project #2:

Project Name	Chronic Watch

Role	Developer

Duration	June ‘12 - April ‘14

Team Size	10

Environment 	Technologies        :  SERVLET, JSP

Framework           : WEBSERVICES(Restfull)

                              STRUTS, HIBERNATE

Database              :  MySQL 5.5.0 



Description:	

      

The main theme of this Application is to monitor patient health through
online. This project having 4 roles Admin , Case Manager , Physician and
Patient . Admin and Case Manger using web application for interacting
this project.Admin will create all other 3 users and map patients to
physicians.CaseManager will monitor all alerts regarding patients
abnormal vital signs, abnormal answers for questioner and medication not
taken alerts. Physician use I pad app for interacting this project using
web services and schedule for patients and view patients uploaded vital
signs values. Patients use Android app for interacting this project
using web services will get all schedules and reminders. Patients can
upload vital signs manually or through vital device.

Modules of the project:

a. Admin and CareGiver (Web Application).

b. Web services (Service layer).

c. Patient Application (Android app).

d. Physician Application (IOS, Ipad).

e. IVR Calling.

f. Video Calling.

g. Vital Sign Device.

Features of the Chronic Watch:

• Patient alerts (Vital Sign, Medication, Distress, Heart Beat, Daily
Activity).

• Collecting Vital Sign Data.

• Prescribe Medication.

• Video Conferencing.

• IVR Calling.

• Reminder Mode.

• Vital Sign Monitoring.

• Vital Sign Device.

Responsibilities:

Involved in the analysis of the Application.

Involved in interacting Database using hibernate framework.

Involved in coding at development phase using struts framework.

Involved in Writing web services as per requirement.

Worked on pushing notifications to Android and Iphone devices using
Urban Airship,GCM and MQTT.

Created Threads to monitor vital/Medical/Questionary Schedules for
Reminding patients.

Project #3:

Project Name	Cancer Aide Oranganization

Role	Developer

Duration	August ‘11 to June ‘12

Team Size	3



Description:

      

This Cancer Aide is a health care record which deals with the people
suffering with cancer .This website helps in giving online help to the
patients’ .It consists of online registration for both doctors and
patients. Cancer Aide provides online Health Insurance with provides
online help.

The objective is "to bring together like minded doctors for providing
quality care for cancer patients and setting high standards of ethical
practice", coordinate with other organizations for achieving "consensus
opinion on contemporary issues affecting the cancer treatment" and to
achieve "standardization in the field of cancer care".

The vision of the Organization is to achieve "acceptable standardization
in the field of cancer care in the Indian setting" by evidence based
consensus opinion amongst the specialists.

Members of the Organization will strive for excellence in the practice
of oncology, promote clinical research and provide quality care for
cancer patients with high standards of ethical practice.

Modules of the Project:

• Super Administrator.

• Administrator

• User Management with Patient, Physician Applications.

Roles & Contribution:

Designing the UI part 

Designing and creating tables for database.

Involved in the deployment of various components in test and live
environments.

Handled the Build Deliveries and leading the team in the absence of
Lead.

Personal Details:

Name	                       : A.Swapna

Date of birth		: 8th  june 1990

Sex			: Female             

Nationality		: Indian

Language known	: English, Telugu and kannada.

 

Declaration:

I hereby declare that the above information is correct to the best of my
knowledge and belief. I have not suppressed any material or factual
information in above statement.

Place: Bangalore.	                         		                           
                              Swapna Anchuri.

