Spring: 1.10

Hib: 2.11 year

5/6/30days

12PM

Chinna Mallesh.B                                                        
                            Email id:  chinnamalleshboya@gmail.com 

 Banglore                  				                              Mobile
:+919164474047

Objective : 

Seeking position as an organization contributor and developer in a
competent and creative environment.  

Experience Summary :   

Presently associated with ConnectM Technology Solutions   Pvt  Ltd  ,
Banglore  as Software Engineer.

Good exposure in Healthcare,Tele Communication domain.

Extensive experience in web application design using open source 
frameworks like Struts,Spring.

Worked on different application and web servers like Sun Java System
Application Server and 

Apache Tomcat , Web Logic.

Extensive experience in Eclipse and NetBeans.

Strong ability to learn, absorb and use new technologies quickly. 

Work Experience:

Working  as a Software Engineer in  ConnectM Technology Solutions  Pvt. 
Ltd  , Banglore 

from  Sep -2014 to till date(9 months ),

Worked as a Software Engineer in  Bloomedha Info Solutions  Ltd  ,
Hyderabad 

from  Jul -2012  Jul -2014(2 .1 years).

Technical Skills:

              Programming Language	:   Java/J2EE

              Web Technologies           	:   JDBC, Servlets and JSP

        	Framework	            	:   Struts -1.x,
Struts-2.x,Spring(Core,IOC,DAO,MVC), Hibernate

	Scripting Language      	:   Java Script

	Web Design		:   HTML

               Reporting Tool                  :   Birt Report, Jasper
Report

	Database		:  Oracle, MySQL

	Servers		              :  Apache Tomcat, Sun Java System Application
Server, Web Logic

	IDE and Tools		:   Eclipse, Net Beans

 	Operating Systems	:  Windows 2000/XP

	Data Retrieval API	:  Lucene

	Version Control		:  uberSVN	

Academic Profile:

MCA (Master of Computer Applications) from JNTU,Hyderabad,AP with 76%.

Project 1:

Title		       :	  Volunteer Management System (VMS)

Clients		       : 	  Lifesan Clinical Research, Mumbai

			  Micro therapeutic Research Labs Pvt Ltd, Chennai

Environment	       :	  Java 1.6, JSP, Struts 2.x,Hibernate 3

Application Server    :         Web Logic

Database	       : 	  MySQL

Duration	     	       :	 Sep 2014 to Till Date  

Description: 

		Volunteer Management System (VMS) is tool that would enable the
Clinical Research division to gather volunteer information, check the
validity and  integrity of the data and store them for future use. It is
a tool that allows Volunteer Registration, tracking, matching,
scheduling and reporting. It is also a Data Management Tool for study
administrators to manage clinical data for a new drug, define protocols,
and manage study participants (volunteers), schedule participant
appointments.

		This tool will enable the department to handle volumes of data with
ease and hence manage information more efficiently. The tool is based on
biometrics (fingerprint) and personal photograph for volunteer
identification and management. Biometric Scanner and Web cam are
integrated into the system.

Responsibility: 

Involved in Developing the Modules like Registration (Finger Print),
Study, Audit Trail.

Participated Requirements Analysis with product and business teams to
understand the requirements.

Coded and developed business applications based on requirement from
marketing team using Core Java, Java2 Enterprise Edition (J2EE)
components, Struts 2.x, AJAX and MySQL, Multi-Threading.

Provided support to product management team while demo of functionality.

Generate Dynamic reports using Jasper Reporting tool.

Review codes to identify any basic errors.

Written Unit test cases and validate QA functional test cases for all
scenarios.

Provided fixes/support issues raised by QA team on the delivered items
during functional and integration testing.

Project 2:

Title		       :	  ATM Remote Monitoring System

Clients		       : 	  Nelco Limited, Mumbai

Environment	       :	  Java, Servelets,JSP, Spring,Hibernate

Application Server    :         JBoss Application Server

Database	       : 	  MySQL

Data Retrieval           :	  Lucene

Duration	     	       :	 Jan  2014 to Jul 2014

Description: 

                       ATM Remote Monitoring System is designed to help
infrastructure management companies to reduce their operational expenses
and improve security and safety of the ATM site or Banks. The solution
also provides intelligent control of energy assets (ac, ups and battery)
to save wasted energy.

                     Bank management people can remotely track and
monitor ATM’s and bank branches on security,performance by using this
application.Main modules in this system are live dashboard, energy
dashboard, alarm monitoring, asset management, ticketing and issue
tracking system, video monitoring and auto report delivery and
analytics.

Responsibility: 

Involved in Developing the Modules like Admin, Reports,Templates .

Coded and developed business applications based on requirement from
marketing team using Core Java, Java2 Enterprise Edition (J2EE)
components, Spring.

Participated Requirements Analysis with business teams to understand the
requirements.

Coded and developed business applications based on requirement.

Generate Live Dashboard using Jasper Reporting tool.

Project  3:

Title		:	Lab IT

Client		:	Vimta Labs Limited, Hyderabad

Environment	:	Struts 1.3, JSP, Servlets,Tomcat 6

Database	:	Oracle

Duration		: 	Mar  2013  to  Dec  2013

Description      

		  

             Lab IT is a laboratory information tracking system to
automate sample management and tracking activities to ensure data
integrity throughout the laboratory testing cycle.  Independent
activities like sample registration, barcode management, laboratory
activities, QA review, report generations are tightly integrated to
ensure sample visibility at any particular point in time. The solution
is customizable to any industry that has sample processing activity as
part of their services.

Responsibility: 

Involved in coding part of the application development using Struts.

Involved in design and coding part of this application .

Performed unit and functionality testing.

Project  4:

Title		         :  	 Sentinel

Client		         : 	 GVK Biosciences, Hyderabad

Environment	         :   	J2SE, JSP, Servlets, Struts 1.3,Hibernate	

Application Server	 : 	Sun Java System Application Server

Database	         :  	MySQL

Duration	     	         : 	Jul 2012 to Feb 2013

Description:

	 	 

Sentinel is a web based application is to maintain a centralized
repository of information related to pharmaceutical and will keep track
of Volunteer’s participation in studies related to Clinical Research.
The system thus enables CRO’s to track Volunteer’s cross
participation, if practiced, by a volunteer or a group of volunteers.
Volunteer’s fingerprint forms the basis of identification of all the
relevant details related to volunteer’s participating in studies
across CRO’s. This user manual describes the system features and their
functionality in detail. Volunteer is registered fingerprint based
biometrics in global which is registered in This Organization. 

Responsibility: 

Involved in Developing the Modules like Enrollment, Audit Trail,
Reports.

Developed JSP pages in STRUTS framework

Involved in design and coding part of this application

Performed unit and functionality testing.

					

Personal Details:

Father Name			:	B.Thimmappa

Permanent Address		:	H.No:1-160, Gundrevula, C.Belagal,

                                                          	Kurnool
(Dist), AndhraPradesh-518462		

Data of Birth			:	03-06-1986	

Marital Status 	           		:	Married

Languages Known		:	English,Telugu	

Declaration:  

I  hereby declare that the above stated information is true to the best
of my knowledge. 

Place: Banglore.						     

