RESUME

Srikanth					

Professional Summary:

5 + years of experience in web application development using JAVA and
J2EE technologies.

Overall 7 years of experience in IT.

Strong programming skills in Java, JSP and Servlet.

Strong knowledge in frameworks like Spring, Struts and Ibatis.

Strong Knowledge in spring frameworks like Spring boot, Spring Roo and
Spring Jdbc.

Strong knowledge in scripting languages like AJAX, jQuery, JQuery and
JavaScript.

Experience in Rest API and Soap Web services.

Experience in using IDE’s like Eclipse and Spring Tool Suite.

Experience in Developing Third Platform Applications.

Experience n Cloud Foundry (Pivotal Cloud Foundry).

Experience in Unix for Deployment and configurations

Professional Experience:

Working as Senior Application Developer in EMC Corporation, Bangalore
from June 2013 to till date.

Worked as Senior Software Engineer at Wipro Technologies, Bangalore from
Jan 2013 to June 2013.

Worked as Senior Software Engineer at HCL Technologies, Bangalore from
June 2010 to Jan 2013.

Worked as Operations Engineer at Onmobile Global Limited, Bangalore from
June 2008 to May 2010.

Job Profile:

Develop application according to functional and technical design
specifications.

Create efficient and reusable middle tier logic using Java, spring and
Ibatis.

Create flexible persistence logic to interact with database using DAO
design pattern.

Create intuitive and dynamic user interfaces using HTML, DHTML, CSS,
JavaScript, and AJAX.

Involved in creating and deploying the build for both internal testing
and UAT.

Technical Skills:

	Programming Languages	: JAVA, J2EE

Scripting Languages		: JQuery, AJAX, JavaScript and Angular JS

Frameworks			: Struts 1.x, 2.x, Spring & Ibatis 

Spring Frameworks                    : Spring Boot, Spring Roo, Spring
MVC and Spring JDBC

Application Servers		: Jboss, Web sphere	

Web Servers 			: Apache Tomcat

RDBMS			: Oracle and MySQL

Web Services                          : Rest API and Soap 

Graph DB                                 : Neo4j

Cloud Foundry                          : Pivotal Cloud Foundry

Java IDE  Tools			: Eclipse and STS

Build tools			: Hudson, Ant & Maven

Other Tools 			:SSH Client, SVN, TFS, SQL Developer & TOAD

Educational Qualification:

Bachelor of Technology in Electronics and Communication with 84.6% from
JNTU, Andhra Pradesh in 2008

Intermediate with 93 % from Board of Intermediate, Andhra Pradesh in
2004.

CBSE with 73.2% from Kendriya Vidayala Bolarum, Andhra Pradesh in 2002.

Achievements:

Got 5 Gold medals in Engineering.

Got 2 Silver awards, 1 bronze in EMC for Best Performance.

Got IChampion award for Tes Project.

Got selected as Finalist in the Innovation Conference held in EMC.

Project Description:

Project # 1 – EMC Software Licensing Central (Customer Portal)

Duration	: June 2013 to till date

Role		: Java Developer 

Domain	: Licensing Module of Storage Domain

Environment	: Spring Framework,Spring Boot(Micro Services),Pivotal
Cloud     Foundry(PCF),Angular JS and Oracle

Customer Portal EMC Software Licensing Central (the name of the new
customer portal) is the Licensing module for the all the EMC products
such as Viper,Vmax,VNXe etc This is the Customer facing machine critical
application.End Customers and Partners use this application of the
License Activation,Regenarate License and Rehost.This application was
built on Third Platform application technologies like Spring Boot with
micro services. This is self-service license portal to provide
simplified activation experience and single location for the customer to
view entitlement, deployment and usage. EMC Software Licensing Central
replaced both the Power link Licensing functionality and the Lite Touch
Activation processes that were available to customers today. EMC
Software Licensing Central will also provide access to the new Usage
Intelligence. Customers will be able to see not only what they have
purchased and activated within their environments but also see how they
are actually using EMC software. 

Project # 2 - Nationwide(UI Refresh)	

Duration	: Jan 2013 - June 2013

Role		: Java Developer 

Client		: Nationwide 

Domain	: Insurance

Environment
: Spring(Web-Flow),Struts,Ibatis(ORM),JSP,JavaScript,Jquery,Apache  
Tomcat,Oracle

UI Refresh is online Auto Insurance Project for Nationwide Client.Where
This project deals with creating quote and Bind Coverage for a policy of
Auto(Vehicle). This application deals with creating Vehicle Insurance
for all types of Vehicle(Audi,BMW,Honda,etc).The Project uses Agile
methodology .This Auto Insurance depends on the various factors like
Rules,make, model and licence etc. This Insurance is for 25 Eastern
states of USA.Worked for Phase 4 for UI refresh for Newyork and south
Carolina.

Project # 3 – MBC(Multi Bank Client)

Duration	: Dec 2011 to Jan 2013

Role		: Java Developer 

Client		: Deutsche Bank AG (Germany)

Domain	               : Banking

Environment	: Struts, Spring, Ibatis (ORM), JSP and JavaScript.

Dbdi-Multibank (EBICS client) will support EBICS transactions and
transmission to/from any EBICS server (DB or non-DB). It will support
both SEPA payments and transactions in the German legacy formats for
local German customers. Dbdi-Multibank will have similar look and feel
than the NBL screens. It will be provided to dbdi customers as an
extension to db-direct internet (dbdi) and include a single-sign-on with
db-direct internet (only one instance of dbdi-Multibank per dbdi domain)
– thus enabling cross-selling and higher fee income. Dbdi-Multibank
will be the major driver for the decommissioning of the legacy
multi-banking client db-direct 6. 

Project # 4 - BCS-FTP and CAT-EB

Duration	: June 2010 – Dec 2011

Role		:  Java Developer 

Client		: Deutsche Bank AG(Germany)

Domain  	: Banking

Environment	: Spring MVC, Hibernate, AJAX, JQuery, MySQL and Apache
Tomcat

BCS-FTP is for processing Payments, and sending requested data back to
clients like db-direct 6.x, db-direct MC. BCS-FTP Server supports and
verifies the BCS-standard defined by Federal association of German Banks
with respect to communication, compression and delivers the submitted
orders to the BCS Host for processing. BCS FTP has direct access to the
CAT EB database via database link for on-line client data validation
purpose.

CAT-EB is administration tool for Electronic Banking. Customer data to
be administered in CAT-EB like accounts, products before the customers
connect to the bank. CAT-EB will receive data from CAAA for EBICS
customers and replicate to EBA database for back-end applications
purpose. CAT-EB is used by applications like BCS-FTP, FTAM, BCS-HOST,
Bank-line, etc.

Personal Details: 

Father Name		: Chandra Sekhar

D.O.B			: 21/01/1987

Marital Status		: Single 

Permanent Address	: H.N0-105/2,Trisul Lines, Lothkunta Secundrabad
-500015.	

Declaration:

I hereby declare that all information’s furnished above are true to
the best of my knowledge and belief.

Place: 

Date:						                                		(Srikanth )

TECHPOINT PROFILE

	Page   PAGE  \* MERGEFORMAT  1 





	

