Springs:2 year & current

Hibernate:3 year & current

Web services:REST( not much worked)

Java: 4 year

Build tools:Ant/maven

DB:oracle/sql

8/12/45days

Kiran Kumar Gudapati				                                                
                                  

gkkumar.java@gmail.com	                                                 
                                                                        
                   Mobile: +91-7032888293

Summary:

Over 5 years of experience in Analysis, Design, Development, Testing,
Implementation and Maintenance of Application Software using Java/J2EE
technology stacks. 

Technical Acquaintance:

Expertise in J2EE programming technologies: JSP, Servlets, Java Beans,
MVC, Struts, Spring and Hibernate frameworks. 

Working in R&D team for new initiatives and POC’s

Extensive experience in design, development and deployment of web
components using – Java Servlets, JSP, J2EE, JDBC, SQL.

Experience in developing applications in Adobe Flex 3.0 and Action
Script.

Experience in Java design patterns such as MVC, Singleton, Data Access
Objects (DAO), and Business Delegate.

Experience in writing DAO using Hibernate and Hibernate mapping files.

Excellent communication at all levels of management. 

Ability to work in groups as well as independently with minimum
supervision and initiative to learn new technologies and tools. 

Professional Experience:

Working as a Senior Software Engineer with Kewill Transport India Ltd 

(Formerly Four Soft Ltd), Hyderabad from March 2012 to till date.

Worked as a Software Engineer with Bodhtree Consulting Ltd, Hyderabad
from March 2010 to March 2012.

Educational Qualifications:

B-Tech in Information Technology, Anna University, Chennai. 

Technical Skills:

Java/J2ee Technologies: Servlets, JSP, Struts, Spring, Vaadin,
Hibernate.

Web Technologies: HTML, Adobe Flex 3.0, DOM, CSS, Java Script, Action
Script.

Programming Languages: Java, SQL.

Database: Oracle and MySQL.

Web & Application Servers: Tomcat and JBoss.

Operating Systems: DOS, Windows XP/2000.

IDE’s and Tools: Eclipse, Log4J, JProfiler, Clover, Artifactory, and
Poseidon.

Build Tools: ANT, Maven.

Reporting Tools: Crystal Clear, Jasper Reports.

Source Control: CVS, GitHub.

R&D Activities:

#1: Maven Migration with Artifactory

Migration of legacy products from Ant to Maven builds by integrating and
managing artifactory as a maven repository manager.

 Role:

Analyzed Kewill Warehousing (KW) project and done POC for maven
migration from ant build.

Involved in the discussions and planed roadmap for migration activities.

Provided training on usage and setting up maven environment, to work
with artifactory.

Provided support for issues faced by product teams in migration
activity.

Provided demo to the product managers and stake holders using POC.

Done documentation on migration approach and usage.

Tools & Technologies: Maven, Eclipse IDE, Artifactory.

#2: Performance Tuning.

Tuning of Kewill products with a goal to improve the performance and
bring down the response time of all the requests below 1 second.

Role:

Analyzing the code of the products under development, performing
optimizations by implementing best practices in all the layers of
product architecture 

Suggesting changes, writing efficient code where it consumes more time.

Tools & Technologies: JProfiler, Eclipse IDE, IBM page Detailer.

#3: MIS Dashboard using Jasper reports

 It is a POC developed for reporting dashboard solution for Top
Management, presenting integrated consolidated information of inbound
and outbound of the organization like billing data and inventory.

Role:

Developed application using Spring MVC.

Designed jsp’s for rendering exported reports in the UI.

Used Jasper API for fetching and rendering data to JRXML’s.

Designed basic report templates with drill down feature using IReport.

Tools & Technologies: IReport, Spring3.0, Apache Tomcat.

Projects Handled:

Project		: Kewill Warehouse Management (KW) 3.0 & 4.0

Client		: Product                                                       
                    

Technologies	: Spring, Hibernate, 4SFrameWork, Poseidon for UML,
Andromda, Crystal Clear     

                             Reports, Oracle, Eclipse, Win CVS.

  		 	 

Description	:

		Kewill Warehousing (KW) Management System from Kewill Ltd, Covering
the Logistics environment from Supplier to consumer. Extending beyond
the usual limits of a WMS, KW offers visibility to clients, their
customers and their suppliers, as well as across warehouses and clients.
Designed for the 3PL environment, it allows multiple warehouses and
multiple clients to be managed from within a single environment.		

Contribution:

Ownership for modules like GRN, Inventory Adjustment and Replenishment.

Solely involved in design and development of cross docking operation.

Involved in writing common services and business logic implementations
required in the application.

Done code reviews and performance tuning.

Worked on Bug fixing and enhancements on change requests.

Given support for deployments in UAT and production environments.

Project		: Vendor Intelligence System

Client		: Dr Reddy’s Laboratories                                     
                                      

Technologies	: JDK 1.5, Spring3.0, Oracle 10g, Hibernate and Apache
Tomcat 6.0.10.

  		 	 

Description	:

		VIS is the Supplier Registration system integration with Dr Reddy’s
corporate website with a separate backend for the admin and buyers.
Captures supplier data and saves in database, based on the information
buyer can login and search for registered supplier and write comments.
Buyers can set alerts to be received when a supplier under a specific
service category is registered. 

Contribution:

Involved in project database design.

Involved In writing Controller classes and DAO Classes.

Developed GUI using JSP’s and HTML used DWR, DHTML grid components.

Used Log4J for generating the logs.

Project		: Perfect and Portfolio Management.

Client		: Dr Reddy’s Laboratories                                     
                                      

Technologies	: JDK 1.5, Spring3.0, Flex, Fusion Charts Oracle 10g and
Apache Tomcat 6.0.10.

                                                                        
                                       

Description	:

			Perfect and Portfolio management consists of two modules in which
perfect is used to manage and group the employees department wise which
enables the reporting managers  to drill-down and drill-up over their
reports profiles. 

Portfolio management enables the client to track their product
development and sales. The system provides end user to maintain complete
information of a product at different product development stages over a
span of financial years with is estimates and projected revenues for
various business units.

		

Contribution:

Involved In writing Controller classes.

Involved in project database design.

Implemented Ajax using DWR.

Developed file upload/download component with role based access.

Project		: MIDAS (Multi Industry Data Anomaly Solution).

Client		: Bodhtree Consulting LTD.                                      
                                     

Technologies	: JDK, J2EE, My Eclipse, Adobe Flex, Action Script, Tomcat,
Oracle and Windows

                                                                        
                                   

Description	:

                          MIDAS is open standard based J2EE application
which adheres to best industry practices in form of vertical specific
pre-canned data Hygiene steps, data connectors and reports. MIDAS has
Inbuilt data connectors for industry leading OLTP / ERP / DSS systems.
Midas provides scheduling of data cleansing activity and generates
alerts on dashboards. Midas data source component enables to create data
sources for SAP, Sales force, QuickBooks, CVS and Excel files, Siebel on
Demand through its organized connector frame work

		

Contribution:

Involved in developing UI in Flex and integrated with BladzeDS.

Involved in writing controller classes and DAO classes.

Done coding according to the J2EE specs to develop the server-side
application.

Done client side validations using action script.

Designed and Developed the dynamic flex components using action script

										          Kiran Kumar G

		            

		Page   PAGE  1  of   NUMPAGES  5 

