From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience)
the following technologies?  

Hibernate   -3 year& current
year                                  
             

Spring  - 3.5 year& current

Web Services -   3 year

CoreJava    -  7 years                

DesignPatterns   -  5 years            

UMLdesign      -   2Years

Build Tools (Maven/Ant) -   Maven

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools
etc.] - Spring/code collaborator/tomcat/jboss

DB – oracle/mysql

Java – lil bit knowledge on reflection

Kiran Jonnada

Mobile: 7207188260 	

email:   HYPERLINK "mailto:kiranbabujonnada@gmail.com" 
kiranbabujonnada@gmail.com 	

OBJECTIVE:

I am committed to work in a challenging environment within a progressive
and process oriented organization that offers the opportunity for
continuous career development.

PROFILE SUMMARY:

Experience Summary:

7 years of work experience in software development using Java/J2EE
technologies.

Domain expertise in Payment Gateways, Banking, Insurance and HR.

Latest hands on experience technologies include Java, Spring Batch,
Spring Framework 3.1, Hibernate JPA, REST Web services.

Ensuring the deliverables to the client at specified deadlines –
Release Management.

Excellent managerial and team leading skills demonstrated while handling
a team, delegating and monitoring the work.

Involved in sprint planning, estimates, daily stand up meetings and
sprint review while implementing SCRUM methodology.

Handled diverse responsibilities like design, development, unit testing,
support/debugging, and mentoring.

Experienced working in both Windows and Linux systems.

Experience in design and code reviews using code collaborator tool.

Experience working with different application servers like JBOSS and
Apache Tomcat. 

Experienced in writing complex SQL queries with different databases like
Oracle and MySQL.

Coordinating and working closely with onsite clients while participating
in project review meetings and weekly status calls.

Preparing weekly status report, time sheets and monitoring the work
logs.

Experience in implementing third party software and open source
technologies that can be used to enhance the organization level
frameworks.

Proven ability of effective problem solving, and working under pressure
and deadlines while troubleshooting and debugging in a production
support role. 

Excellent communication and client facing skill demonstrated while
taking the responsibility of ownership for a complete product.

Technical Skills Summary:

Languages: Java

Internet technologies: HTML, CSS, XML, XSLT, XPath, JavaScript, AJAX

J2EE Technologies: Servlets, JDBC, JSP, EJB, Web Services

Frameworks/APIs: JUnit, JSF, Apache Struts, Spring, Hibernate

Databases: Oracle, MySQL

Tools: IBM RAD, Eclipse based IDEs, Saxon.

Build Tools: Gradle, Maven

Version Control Systems: Subversion(SVN), GIT

Servers: JBOSS, Apache Tomcat  

PROFESSIONAL CERTIFICATIONS:

Sun Certified Web Component Developer, Enterprise Edition 5.0, Apr 2010

Sun Certified Java Programmer, Standard Edition 5.0, Aug 2008

EDUCATION:

MS in Management - University of Bristol, UK 	Sep’ 08 – Jan’10

Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science & IT  - JNTU, Hyderabad
Oct’ 01 – Jun’ 05

WORK EXPERIENCE:

Systems Analyst,  Wavecrest Payment Technologies, India	Mar’ 12 –
Till date

Java Developer – Glosoft Technologies, London, UK	May’ 10 – Jan’
12

Software Engineer - Jarus Technologies, Hyderabad, India. 	Sep’ 07 –
Sep’ 08

Asst. Software Engineer – Vanez Solutions, Hyderbad, India.	May’ 05
–  Aug’07

PROJECT EXPERIENCE:

Project 1: Batch Jobs - Corporate Payment Hub (CPH)	Apr’14 – Till
date

Organisation: Wavecrest Payment Technologies

Client: B2B Portal for clients

Description: Corporate Payment Hub is a B2B Portal for business partners
of Wavecrest that allows the partners to register, enrol their
program’s card holder details, manage payments to their card holders,
to create new cards for new or registered card holders. This project’s
main aim is to provide a user interface for business partners and
Wavecrest operations admin to manage the requests of business partners.
My task is to develop batch jobs for handling bulk requests from client.
The job picks up different files that are uploaded into Wavecrest’s
system, and process them. The file contains bulk number of requests for
card loads and card creation.

Responsibilities:

Responsible for Batch job design while working closely with lead
architects and product owner.

Responsible for creating a reusable generic reader to read Microsoft
Excel files through Spring Batch.

Unit testing the batch jobs in different environments (dev integration &
staging).

Integrating the batch jobs with the CPH portal.

Responsible for creating command line scripts for QA team to test the
jobs in Linux systems.

Documenting the technical details of the batch jobs that would be spread
across clients.

Providing KT to QA team to run the batch jobs.

Contributions: 

Batch jobs for handling bulk card load and card creation requests. 

Configuring the jobs in Flux server for scheduling the jobs.

Technical Snapshot: Java, Hibernate, Spring Batch, REST Web services,
Vagrant box, Log4J, MySQL, Gradle, Flyway, Tomcat 6, SVN, Spring Source
Tool (STS), SQL Yog, SOAP UI, Linux.

Project 2: Card Management (Platform 2.0)	Dec’ 13 – Mar’ 14	

Organisation: Wavecrest Payment Technologies	

Client: Product (multiple clients)

Description: Card Management is one of the important modules of the
Platform 2.0. Platform is the core development framework of
Wavecrest’s payment solutions product. Card management provides
multiple services like providing pre-paid cards for clients, card
activation support, card loads, wallet management, adding
instruments/banks (to transfer money ACH in and out operations), fee
management for transactions, balance/transaction details.

Responsibilities:

Responsible for design of Purchase Card API – Handling the failure
case scenarios using spring batch.

Responsible for integrating other services and portal UI with this API.

Coding and implementing the API for the application using REST based web
services.

Unit testing the APIS using internal framework by JSON input. 

Technical documentation of the APIs for the client.

Peer reviews using code collaborator.

Contributions:

Developed API for ‘purchase card’ functionality which allows end
users to purchase a card, activate and pre load money.

Configured email/sms templates for a client for triggering alerts
whenever a card load transaction is performed (both AUTHORIZATION and
DECLINE).

Technical Snapshot: Java, Hibernate, REST Web services, Spring Framework
3.1, Vagrant Box, Log4J, MySQL, Gradle, Flyway, Tomcat 6, SVN, Eclipse,
Spring Source Tool (STS), SQL Yog, SOAP UI, Linux.

Project 3: WICS-CSR (UI)	Jan’ 13 – Dec’ 13

Organisation: Wavecrest Payment Technologies

Client: GTECH, U.S.A

Description: The aim of this project is to provide a user interface for
the WaveCrest Inventory Control Systems for Customer Service
Representatives (CSR) in order for them to manage the inventory and the
retailers. This is a b2b application provided on the top of WICS batch
jobs to manually handle the inventory apart from the automated batch
jobs. This application allows the user to edit the retailer details, re
assign the inventory, place manual orders, and update the status of the
inventory.

Responsibilities:

Responsible for preparing business requirement specifications along with
onsite project manager.

Responsible for architectural/technical design of the product while
working closely with lead architects using technologies like Hibernate,
Spring, Webservices.

Responsible for delegating and monitoring the work to the team members.

Took complete ownership of the project and acted as POC till date.

Coordinating with onsite PHP team for the integration of the APIs.

Technical documentation of the APIs for the client.

Code reviews using code collaborator to ensure the coding standards are
met while optimizing the performance of the application.

Contributions:

Took initiative in gathering the business requirements for the product.

Took complete ownership of the product and supported operations team
post production.

Technical Snapshot: Java 1.6, Hibernate JPA, Spring Framework 3.1, SOAP
UI, Log4J, MySQL, Gradle, Tomcat 6, SVN, Spring Source Tool (STS), SQL
Yog, SOAP UI, Linux. 

Project 4: Wavecrest Inventory System - Batch Jobs	Apr’ 12 – Dec’
12

Organisation: Wavecrest Payment Technologies

Client: GTECH, U.S.A

Description: The aim of this project is to develop batch jobs for
WaveCrest Inventory system that allows adding merchants to place adhoc
orders for pre-paid cards (inventory), re assign inventory change of
ownership. In addition it also generates auto orders, manages shipping
of the inventory. All the batch jobs are later configured into a
scheduling tool called Flux which would reduce manual intervention in
running the jobs.

Responsibilities:

Involved in the end to end development life cycle while implementing
SCRUM agile methodology.

Effectively used Spring Framework 3.1 along with Hibernate for
developing business logic.

Hands on experience on spring batch technology for developing batch
jobs.

Responsible for the ownership of modules like card order generation.

Attending onsite manager/client calls on daily, weekly basis for
reporting the status of the product backlog and estimations.

Daily support and maintenance of the automation jobs in production.

Contributions:

Designed and developed a reusable framework for automated batch jobs
using spring batch.

Automation of jobs by configuring them in the FLUX server (scheduler
tool).

Technical Snapshot: Java 1.6, Hibernate JPA, Spring Framework 3.1,
Spring Batch2.1, Log4J, MySQL, Gradle, Maven, Tomcat 6, SVN, Spring
Source Tool (STS), SQL Yog, Linux. 

Project 5: ATS for ISA version 2.0	Apr’ 11 – Jan’ 12

Organisation: Glosoft Technologies, U.K.

Client: Nationwide Building Society, Swindon, U.K.

ATS for ISA is an internal web application used to keep the track of the
customer’s ISA (Individual Savings Account) applications. Version 2.0
is an upgrade for previous version which includes some improved
performance of the application by inducing business process management
principles into the project. This application’s main aim is to provide
fast and paperless solution to process the applications based on the
application type queues and also to allow managers to allocate the work
to team members and to ensure the SLAs are met. 

Responsibilities:

Involved in design stage: Actively participated in developing a
prototype model and presenting the model to clients.

Coding the business logic while following the internal framework based
on Java, Spring and Hibernate.

Accountable for developing the case history module and the key stages
modules of the application while simultaneously working in other
modules.

Actively participated in code reviews for checking coding standards.

Building and deploying the applications into Dev server and testing
environment (Unit Testing). 

Assisted the project’s production phase and end user support.

Involved in face to face meetings with clients during status meetings,
end user knowledge transfer.

Technical Snapshot: Java 1.5, Hibernate, Spring, web services, Log4J,
Oracle, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, SVN, JBOSS, ANT, Eclipse

Project 6: Transform 2.1	June’ 10 – Mar’ 11

Organisation: Glosoft Technologies, U.K. 

Client: Nationwide Building Society, Swindon, U.K.

Description: Transform 2.1 is an internal internet based web application
that is used to retrieve the complete details of the customer including
personal details and all the types of accounts they hold with NBS. The
system helps the administrator in authorizing the applications and
checking the authenticity of the customer while making telephone calls.
It is also used to amend the personal details of the customer which
automatically updates those details to all the existing accounts. This
system is also useful to track the closed accounts by viewing their
transaction history.

Responsibilities:

Extensively involved in the design stages with the clients, attending
status meetings, service/change requests processing.

Involved in coding and support for the transactions modules.

Extensively used Eclipse IDE for development and debugging the
applications.

Developed client side coding for calling the web services to retrieve
the customer’s history.

Provided support for the production issues.

Technical Snapshot: Java 1.5, Hibernate, Spring, XML, XSLT, Log4J,
Oracle, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ajax, DWR, SVN, VSS, JBOSS, ANT,
Selenium, Eclipse.

Organization: Jarus Technologies, India		Sep’ 07 – Sep’ 08

Client: Farmers Alliance Mutual Insurance, U.S.A

Projects: 

Batch-printing

Description: This application is for generating, printing and uploading
the documents to Acrosoft content management system. The user interface
provides an efficient way for generating the documents from templates
and input XMLs. The generated document is sent to printing and then
archived to Acrosoft. The user interfaces are developed using JSF and
rich faces. 

Ifami-billing

Description: Ifami Billing is a project used to automate the process of
paying the bills and premiums of the policies by adding bank account
details to their profile, creating new bill accounts for customers
(feature for agents). 

Fami-endorsements

Description: This application provides solution to automate the process
of endorsing products for insurance to vehicles and drivers. The
insurance policies are mainly for farmers. 

Technical Snapshot: JSF, Hibernate, Spring Framework, Web services, IBM
DB2, AJAX, Yasu quick rules, Log4j, Jboss 4.0, XML, XSLT, XPath

Organization: Vanez Solutions, Hyderabad, India		May’ 05 – Jul’ 07

	Got trained on Java and J2ee technologies and involved in couple of
projects in HR domain which helped me establish my career as a Java
developer.

REFERENCES: Available upon request.

