Ramanathan N K
Software Development Engineer at Amazon India
ramanathnk@gmail.com

Summary
Software developer, research engineer with over 3 years of industry experience and worked on image
recognition (research) and on the development and maintenance of large scale distributed systems.
Joined Infosys as a fresher in September 2010 and underwent training for a duration of about 5 months in .Net.
and graduated to an educator given the merit of having excelled as a trainee. Worked as an educator with
Infosys for brief period and moved to the niche area of research where I worked on image processing and face
recognition algorithms. Moved to Amazon after having secured my dream job as a developer at Amazon. Here I
work on price analytics for Amazon digital store. The learning curve has been quite steep at Amazon where we
develop top quality software with the use of Service oriented architecture (SOA).

Experience
Software Development Engineer at Amazon
June 2013 - Present (1 year 1 month)
I work at Amazon as a software developer. Here we monitor how competitive we are at our core business and
make sure we are not behind competitors either in the choice of products or in the prices we offer. At Amazon
we are known to offer the widest selection at the best prices. We are involved in most business decisions. We
make sure we have the best software that could tell the business about any of the products we don’t yet have
or any of the products we don’t yet sell at competitive prices.
I have done major re-design of services that we run that changed the service in fundamental ways to widen
the scope of the system to include new use-cases and automate process that required support engineering time
and occupied a major portion of the support engineering tasks.
Senior Systems Engineer at Infosys
September 2010 - June 2013 (2 years 10 months)
Image Processing:
My work involved research on face detection. Face detection was an active area of research and an interesting
problem to solve. There were several algorithms already available in the market for face detection. The most
popular ones were Principal component analysis and Eigen faces. But these algorithms were far from perfect
and work on better face detection was continuously being carried out.
My team’s focus had been on areas such as skin detection. It is noteworthy that our skin detection algorithms
had beaten the best algorithms available in the market. We had managed to achieve an accuracy of above
90% whereas the best algorithms available earlier could merely achieve about 84%. The algorithms we had
developed used some of the genetic algorithms and clustering algorithms.
I had specifically worked on template matching algorithms that were used to extract small parts from an
Page1

image for face recognition. Certain facial features could be extracted with very good accuracy.
Some of the face classification algorithms that I implemented used extensively the k-means clustering
algorithm to classify faces and group together similar faces. Interesting results were obtained by this method.
The algorithms that I developed guided by senior research scientists were used by them to write papers on
these topics.
Educator & Trainee
I was earlier a part of the training where I was in control of the massive training program at Infosys Ltd.
Every year about 19,000 trainees from Engineering background and others go through this training which is
among the best in class in a single campus. I was in charge of a batch of about 100 trainees and I had to take
care of their various training requirements as a Single Point of Contact (SPOC). I would have to handle
sessions on various training requirements at short notice.

Projects
Algorithm for a Robot
December 2007 to February 2008
Members:Ramanathan N K, Mangaiappan Muthu
This project was based on a competitive event that required the computation of an efficient solution to
maximize the number of people saved from a building during a fire accident. The layout of the building is
specified and the number of people in each of the rooms and the accurately estimated time-left-to-live of the
persons are specified. The problem is to devise an algorithm to maximize the number of people saved. It is
worth mentioning that the algorithm was among the 10 best algorithms selected in the completion held in IITMadras in the Annual-Tech-Event which goes by the name Shaastra.

Courses
Bachelor's Degree, Computer Science and
Engineering
Sona College of Technology
Design and Analysis of Algorithms
Data Structures
Theory of Computation
Operating Systems
Relational Database Management System
The design of the UNIX operating system
Artificial Intelligence
System Software
.................................................................................................................................................................

Page2

Independent Coursework
Artificial Inteligence(Udacity.com)
How to build a search engine (Udacity.com)

CS101

Design and Analysis of Algorithms: Tim Roughgarten
(Coursera.org)

Languages
English
Tamil
Kannada

(Full professional proficiency)
(Limited working proficiency)
(Elementary proficiency)

Skills & Expertise
Core Java
C
SQL
Java Enterprise Edition
Mockito
Amazon SQS
Amazon S3
Amazon SNS
Amazon EC2
Amazon DynamoDB
Amazon Web Services (AWS)
Machine Learning
Linux
C++
Software Development
PL/SQL
Eclipse
Computer Vision
Python
Project Management
Spring

Education
Sona College of Technology
Bachelor's Degree, Computer Science and Engineering, 2006 - 2010
Grade: 76%
Montfort School, Yercaud

Page3

High School, Computer Science, Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry, 1996 - 2006
Grade: 84 %
Activities and Societies: Scouts

Interests
Mathematical Ability : Was an above average performer in school.
Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis : I have an authoritative grasp of algorithms and data structures.
Studied various programming paradigms like greedy algorithms, divide and conquer, dynamic programming,
strategies to deal with NP complete/hard problems.
Artificial Intelligence : Studied various AI algorithms like particle filters, Bayes' networks, SVM, logistic/linear
regression, neural networks
Behavioral Sciences : Behavioral science is my new found interest. I have read books such as 'Thinking fast and
Slow' - Daniel Kahneman and also other books by Dan Ariely.
Economics : I like investing in stocks. I strictly follow the advice of Benjamin Graham in 'Security Analysis'.
'Crisis Economics' - Nouriel Roubini is one other book that fascinated me.

Page4

Ramanathan N K
Software Development Engineer at Amazon India
ramanathnk@gmail.com

Contact Ramanathan on LinkedIn

Page5

