 Synopsis: 



About 10 years of experience in the IT Industry, sound experience in the
Development, Coding and Testing under Windows, Client Server
environment. Experience on Java2.0, Servlets, Applets, RMI, Java Beans,
EJB, XML, Swing, C/C++, HTML and JavaScript.

  Professional Summary:



Specific Expertise:	

Expertise with Tomcat, Web Sphere 5.1,JBOSS

Experience in wring documents Software Design, FRS and Test Case

Experience in different operating systems like windows, red hat and Suse
Linux 

Experience in Enterprise and web application 

Knowledge in of Struts Frame Work

J2EE include with authentication, authorization and transaction
management

Presentation layer design and programming on HTML, Applets, AWT and
Swing

Business Logic component design and programming using EJB, Servlets,
Beans and RMI 

Good exposure web services like SOAP 5.1

Working Knowledge on ANT, MAVEN and Eclipse 3.1

Experience of understanding Unified Modeling Language.

J2EE includes with Authentication, Authorization and High Level Security
and Transaction Management.

Good Exposure to understanding Software Development Life Cycle.

Experience in Design Patterns.

Experience in Interacting RELATIONAL DATABASE like Oracle, and My SQL.

Knowledge on java card API and APDU Commands

Good exposure writing documents in FRS, Technical specification and
Software implementation

Good exposure design table objects according to business requirements.

Good experience  on JBPEL , Guvnor and Drools

	

Industries:

Insurance, Banking and Telecom, Air Cargo, Leasing

Server Technologies:

JDBC 3.0,Servlets, JSP, RMI, EJB, Struts, JMS, WSDL, UDDI, JSF, Drools,
Guvnor, JBPM, JPA, Spring

Language:

C++, Core Java, 

Markup Language:

HTML, XML,UML XSD

Scripting Language:

JavaScript

Servers:

Tomcat, WebLogic, WebSphere, JBoss

Thick Client GUI:

AWT, Swings, Applets, ADOBE Flex 

Operating system:

Windows NT/95/98/2000

Tools:

Ant, Clear Case, Star team, MKS, Quality Control, SOAP UI, Maven,SVN



Experience:	 

Working As system analyst in Hexaware technologies – India Dec 2010 to
till date

Worked As Snr. Java Developer in AtosOrigin - SouthAfrica Apr 2008 to
Nov 2010

Worked As Snr. Java Developer in InsyteInformationSystemsEngneering –
South Africa Feb 2007 to Apr 2008

Worked as a Jnr Java Developer in Hitech Chemicals - Apr 2005 to feb
2007

Worked Jnr Programmer in Integrated Data System – India from May 2003
to Dec 2004.

  Educational Qualifications:



Degree	Institute	Year of Passed

S.S.C	Board of secondary education	1994

Intermediate	Board of Intermediate	1996

BSc	Bachelor of science	1999

Diploma	Diploma in Information and Systems Management	2000



  Professional Experience:

Project name	:	Logistics Management System – Next Genration (LMS-NG)

Environment	:	JBoss7.0,JSF, JAVA1.6 ,EJB3.0,JPA,Drools,Guvnor,Spring 

Duration	:	July 2013 to till date

Role		:	Team Lead

Description:  LMS NG - Logistics Management System Next Generation is a
product developed by Hexaware for a Fortune 500 client for the Airport
Logistic management System. The product which is currently in production
was developed using legacy IBM mainframe. The new LMS NG is developed by
migrating it into multilayer J2EE application. The LMS NG product is a
single stop solution for various Airport Logistic Management systems
such as booking a flight for transporting different products and
generating the Air Way bill.

Responsibilities:

Developing Airway bill Audit and flights restriction use case

Involving design and analysis 

Giving technical support to team members





Project name	:	Unified Offer System (UOS)

Company	:	Hexaware

Environment	:	Weblogic, struts 1.2 , JSP, java1.5, EJB1.2

Duration	:	Sep 2010 – May 2013

Role		:	Team Lead

Description:  

Unified offer system is called group of application 

[Auto Retails –Profi/SLO/CBS/HEFSKP/HEFOnline/Authentication
Application]. Those applications developed with various functionalities.

Responsibilities:

Playing team lead role

Code reviews

Communicate with onsite with business requirement for CR

Responsible server migration and technology up gradation. [JBOSS EJB3.0]

Project name	:	Integrated Angebot System (IAS)

Company	:	Hexaware

Environment	:	JSF, JBPM, JBOSS, Magic Draw, EJB3.0 and window7

Duration	:	Dec 2010 – Aug 2011

Role		:	Team Lead

Description:  

DL intended to integrate all existing offer system hence IAS came up
into picture to develop new offer system with new product line.IAS
communicates external systems like CRM, Scoring, UCS contract system,
Printing service via ESB layer. IAS User interface frame work developed
by hexaware for IAS project itself only. All frame and component
dynamically rendered internal configuration component and rules are
validated by rules engine. 

Responsibilities:

Reviewing functional specification communicate Business analyst.

Preparing class diagrams.

Developing POC to integrate all external system.

Setting development work space.

Project name	:	Number Management System

Company	:	AtosOrigin

Environment	:	iNumeriTrack, Webservices, JSP, Servlets, JMS, Oracle and
unix

Duration 	: 	May 2009 – Nov 2010

Role		:	Team Lead

Description:

Safaricom is leading mobile service provider in Kenya. Safaricom
intended to implement Number management system to re use number from
central data base. Atos origin gave efficient proposal based on
Safaricom requirements.

Responsibilities:

Preparing CR proposal documents

Creating tables according to requirements

Developing soap and GUI interface

Interacting with team members and client

Test server environment responsibilities 

Project name	:	STCProvisioning Tool 

Company	:	AtosOrigin

Environment	:	Windows, Suse Linux, Jdk1.3, Linqus-OTA2.6 and vmware
server

Duration	:	May09 to till Date

Role		:	Team Lead

Description:

STC Provisioning Tool communicate RCA product. This product manages all
sim cards in OTA2.6.

This tool sends core API calls to provisioning card. Tool is failing to
provision card security information in OTA.

Responsibilities:

Developing STC Test Platform in vmware server

Reviewing all document

Installation of suse Linux

Installation of Oracle9i and visiborker5.0

Installation of OTA2.6 Database and binaries

Reviewing code.

Project name	:	Batch Provisioning tool [Mar09 to Apr09]

Client 		:	Gemalto

Company	:	AtosOrigin

Environment	:	Windows, Red Hat Linux, Jdk1.5, Axis2.0 and Provisioning
Interface

Description:

Gemalto is world leader in telecom. They have different products in
telecom, financial and digital securities. Batch provisioning is
standalone an application. It will provision bunch of card. All sim
cards information is stored in CSV files. It works on command line
arguments. These command line arguments configured in Shell script and
MS-Dos batch file. Operating this tool is pretty easy using these
scripts.

Responsibilities:

Installation guide and usage documents

Developing tool

Prepare shell script and dos batch file

Project name	:	Provisioning Interface 

Company	:	AtosOrigin

Environment	:	Windows XP, Red hat Linux Jdk1.5, Microsoft Visio,Axis2.0,
Oracle, Hibernate, nChipher hardware security module, Ant Script, Log4j,
dom4j, tomcat 5.0, Gem connect Secure, Linqus - Provisioning Manager and
Linqus – Over The Air

Duration	:	Apr2008 to Mar2009

Role		:	Team Lead

Description:

Gemalto is world leader in telecom. They have different products in
telecom, financial and digital securities. Provisioning Interface is a
SOAP API, It integrate heterogeneous systems like Gemconect Secure,
Linqus Provisioning Manager, nCipher Hardware Security Module and Linqus
– Over The Air. It has very flexible configuration available to
provisioning sim card in one or many systems. This SOAP API provides to
third party different services for provisioning sim card. These are
create, Delete, Swap, Change and Revision SIM services. It will support
two key sets. GSM03.48 and OTA security keys are used by key sets. 

Responsibilities:

Writing Software Design Description and Software Test Description
Document

Extend Functional Requirement Specification

Preparation Test Case templates

Develop Installation Guide and Usage documents

Preparation of shell scripts for tomcat

Develop Provisioning Interface SOAP API

Execute Test case.

Project name	:	Question Mark Perception 

Company	:	InsyteInformationSystemsEngneering

Environment	:	Ms-Front Page, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, IIS, .Net

Duration 	:	Feb 2008 to Apr2008

Role		:	Team member

Description:

Eskom intended to take online surveys. Question Mark Perception is
customized software for Exam, Quiz and Survey. After creating assessment
need to publish Enterprise Perception Server to access those object
throw browser. By default Question Mark Perception does not give any
validation to Exam, Quiz or Survey.

Responsibilities:

Developing and Designing Web Screens

Developing JavaScript

Project name	:  	ABSA Insurance Company Workflow 

Company	:  	InsyteInformationSystemsEngneering

Duration	: 	Feb 2007 to Feb 2008

Environment	:	Swings,  Sirius Frame Work, Web Service, Web Sphere,
Content Manager, DB2, Windows XP.

Role		:	Team member

Description:

	AIC Genesis is developed for ABSA Insurance. Absa Insurance is life
insurance, Vehicle insurance and Medical insurance. Absa Insurance wants
to automate claim process. AIC Genesis depends other components like
Incoming Adapter, out coming Adapter and CM Adapter. Incoming Adapter
converts in coming mails to PDF and keep Content Manager and CM Adapter
converts scanning files to PDF and keep Content Manager then Claim
Process. It’s continuing until process end. Genesis Contain Delete
Content, General Content, Follow Up, Routed Message and Workflow.

  

Responsibilities:

Developing Server Side Web Service 

Implementing Client Side Delegate

Creating GUI Screen in Swings

Inter acting DB2 Data base and Content Manager

Developing Ant Script for different Environments Dev, Testing, UAT and
Prodution 

Project name	:	Intranet Communicate Portal [Apr 2005 to feb 2007]

Company	:	Hitech Chemical

Environment	:	 Java1.4,  Web logic 7.0,  JDBC,  Servlets,  Ms-Access, 
Windows/ NT,  MS-Dos.

Role		:	Team member

Description: 

This module involved in the creation of a component to serve an
organization that would like to share its information, about the
branches etc with the user. The main objective of this project was,
giving various information about departments and provide different
services viz. a viz. information about an employee working in this
organization, projects  being done currently, offices located etc to the
users, who logon to this site. Access to the website is restricted to
the valid users only and privileges are given to the users accordingly

Responsibilities:

I Involved in to develop GUI in Java Applets using Java Swing API 

For Communication between applets was done using Java Socket
Programming.

I was actively involved in designing and development of Web pages using
HTML and DHTML 

I used Servlets and JDBC to check weather he is valid user or not to
enter into particular department. 

Interacting with database like ms- access

Project name	:	Online Examination [May 2003 to Dec 2004]

Client 		:	Integrated Data Systems

Company	:	Integrated Data Systems

Environment	: 	Java1.4, MVC 1 Architecture, EJB 2.0,JSP, Servlets, JDBC,
WebLogic 7.0,Windows/ NT,My Sql.

Role		:	Team member

Description:

This project deals with online examination. For this management decides
to keep a mock test to the students so that they can easily get through
test. In this project first a student is supplied with an exclusive user
name and password and then he will be asked to take online test by
entering that username and password. Once he enters username and
password student will be given a set of question to answer, which is in
the multiple choices form and we have a next button to get the next step
of question and at last he will get his percentage of the marks of
obtained. 

I have used three components in the project 1) Session Bean 2) Entity
Bean Two entity beans persists the data of the questions and students
information. Mainly Session bean is used to keep track the session of
the student while taking the exam, when he answers for the first
questions, these answers are stored in a vector object where it resides
in session.

Responsibilities:

Involved in designed and development of the Architecture using MVC
framework

Developed Servlets which acts as Controller in MVC Architecture

Designed and Developed the Presentation tiers using J2EE presentation
patterns.

Coding JSP pages for dynamic representation of data on the client side.

Developing EntityBeans

 Connecting to database My - Sql

  Personal Information:



Father’s Name	:	Veereswara Rao

Date Of Birth	:	02 – 06 - 1978

Sex	:	Male

Marital Status	:	Married

	

	

	

								

	(ChandraShekhar.Chittipolu) 

Resume

Chandra Shekhar Chittiprolu              		Email :   HYPERLINK
"mailto:chandra.chittiprolu@gmail.com"  chandra.chittiprolu@gmail.com 

			Mobile : +91 - 9962283836

