From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience)
the following technologies?  

Hibernate                           
                  - 
2years                                 
              

Spring                  
                                  - 
3years

Web
Services                                
        - 
2years                                 
               

Core
Java                                  
             -  8years(JSP,servlets)

Design
Patterns                                
    -    5years

UML
design                                 
          -    

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)                    -   
Maven/Ant   

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools
etc.]

weblogic/ Web Sphere Application Server/jboss

                                                                       

RAJIV SINHA

	                                                Email id:    HYPERLINK
"mailto:Rajiv742@yahoo.com"  Rajiv742@yahoo.com 

	                                                Mobile:     
09175440538	

				         Company: 	IBM India Pvt Ltd. ( Pune )

EXPERIENCE SUMMARY:

11 years of experience in Development and Implementation of Application
Software using Client-Server and Internet Technologies.

Involved as Tech Lead in requirement gathering and design phase.

Used Rational Rose 7.0.0 and UML 2.0 for HLD and LLD

Strong programming experience in Java, J2EE 

Web/Application Servers like WebLogic 6.1, WebSphere5.1,6.1,7

Extensive experience in using SQL.

Used Struts, Spring and Hibernate framework for development of code

Java Batch jobs using shell and perl scripts.

Ability to work in a team and accept responsibility, an excellent team
member with strong inter-personal and communication skills.

OS: 	Windows NT//2000//95//98//XP//7, UNIX

Languages: 	Java (1.6), SQL, XML, XSD

Web Tech:	Servlets, JSP, XHTML, EL, JSTL, JDBC, JNDI, JavaBeans, Multi
Threading, Javascript  - jQuery

Database: 	Oracle 8i/9i/10g/11i, DB2

Design:	Rational Rose, UML for preparing HLD and LLD (High level domain
class diagram and state/Activity diagram/class diagram and sequence
diagram)

SDLC:	Waterfall, Agile – Scrum, Sprint

Framework:     Struts 1.3.8, 2.0

                          Spring MVC 2.0.1, IOC, Spring – DAO

                          Spring WebFlow 3.0,

	JSF, Ajax & Reverse Ajax (DWR, Comet, Server Push),

                          Hibernate 3.0

                         	XML Parsing (SAX/DOM), Xerces

	Web Service – JAX-WS, JAX-RS, Dispatch API, JAXB

	EJB 3.0, JPA

                          

Testing:            LoadRunner, WebSpec, Watij, Selenium, JUnit,
WinRunner

App Servers:   WebSphere (5.1, 6.1), Tomcat, glassfish

IDE:	 	Rational Application Developer (RAD),

		Websphere Studio Application Developer 5.1(WSAD), 

		Eclipse, Netbeans 6.1, 6.9, Toad, SQL Developer

Build Tool:	ANT, Maven

Scheduler:	Tivoli Web Scheduler (Java Batch on UNIX box using shell
script (ksh) and perl script)

Tools: 	ClearCase, Visual Source Safe,  

	HP Service Manager 9, Defect Tracking Systems (Bugzilla)

CERTIFICATION:   Sun certified Programmer for the Java 2 Platform 1
(SCJP)

		Candidate ID: SR1857491

		Registration Number: L58SYD52B6

EDUCATION:	       B.E, Mechanical, Nagpur University

WORK EXPERIENCE

IBM India Pvt Ltd.                                                      
                               May 10 – Contd..

Advisory System Analyst                                                 
                       

Pune

KPITCummins InfoSystems pvt. Ltd.                                       
              Aug 06 – May 10

SSE, Tech Lead

MIDC,Hinjawadi,Pune

MphasiS Software & Services(I) Pvt. Ltd.                                
             May 0’6 – Aug 0’6

SSE

Andheri(E),Mumbai

Kanbay Software(India) pvt ltd                                          
                     Jan 0'4 – April 0’6

Consultant

Talwade,Pune

Ellipse International							Feb’03 - Jan'04

Software Engineer

Vashi, New Mumbai

PROJECT DETAILS

IBM INDIA PVT LTD.  							Dec 10 …Nov 13.

Airbus – eBird

	Preparation of AID (Application Information Document) for Airbus RMM
(Reliability Management Module) and AWK (Framework).

AIRMAN-web is composed of three separated but interacting modules:

HMM, the Health Management Module dedicated to fault messages reporting
and analysis. It is dedicated to troubleshooting and maintenance action
help for Airline.

RMM, the Reliability Management Module dedicated to eLogbook ground
reporting and analysis

Admin, the Administration Module dedicated to manage a common
functionalities for each module

AWK (Framework) is common set of libraries on which HMM and RMM Modules
are implemented.

Volkswagen						

 

Worked as a Tech Lead for following application.

E Tag

APT

AIM VIM

A) E Tag Application                                                    
    Client: Volkswagen/AUDI

           This application allows employee as well as retiree to lease
company vehicle.

            System includes following functionality

Creating new request for lease or surrender

Creating request for place a factory order

Admin functionality for Approval or denial

Admin functionality to upload vehicle for lease

	             This is a support and maintenance project

             Duration: 		Nov 2010 Continued

             Responsibilities: 	Tech Lead and Java Developer

             Environment:    		Struts, LDAP, CORBA, 

			Java Batch jobs using shell and perl scripts,

		Websphere Server, RAD, Clearcase, Oracle 10g 

		HP Service Manager 9

             B) APT Allocation Planning Tool               Client:
Volkswagen/AUDI

The Allocation Planning Tool (APT) system identifies the number of
vehicles that Volkswagen and Audi dealers are eligible to receive based
on a calculation process that includes Production Volumes, Current
period sales, dealer inventory, and in transit vehicles.  The system
determines each dealers fair share allocation of vehicles for the next
allocation period by parsing the numbers from the national, region, and
area to arrive at each dealer’s allocation.  The system also tracks
the dealer’s consumption of vehicles to insure that they do not exceed
the allocation number.  

            

	 This is a support and maintenance project

           

             Duration: 		Nov 2010 Continued

             Responsibilities: 	Tech Lead and Java Developer

             Environment:   		 Struts, LDAP, CORBA, 

			Java Batch jobs using shell and perl scripts,

			Websphere Server, RAD, Clearcase, Oracle 11i 

			HP Service Manager 9

             B) AIM VIM               				Client: Volkswagen/AUDI

             AIMVIM [Audi Inventory Management and Volkswagen Inventory
Management]

             Is a Java Based Web Application tool through which Audi and
Volkswagen Dealer 

             Manages their own Vehicles. This web application handles
Vehicle Ordering, Vehicle

             Order management, sale of vehicle and search functionality.

                          

	 This is a support and maintenance project

           

             Duration: 		Nov 2010 Continued

             Responsibilities: 	Tech Lead and Java developer

             Environment:   		Java, LDAP, CORBA, 

			Java Batch jobs using shell and perl scripts,

			Websphere Server, RAD, Clearcase, Oracle 11i 

			HP Service Manager 9

Barclays Retail Origination System     Client: Barclays Bank        May
10 .. Nov10

This application is all about the data captured for the Barclays banking
system. This data is used for issuing a loan and credit card.

The application is build over JSF and Spring Framework using Spring
webflow 2.0 and Hibernate used for DAO Layer. This system interacts with
the core banking system flex and uses web services to connect to that.

Duration: 		June 2010 to Oct 2010

Responsibilities: 	Design and  Development 

             Environment:      	XHTML, Spring-faces , Spring Webflow
2.0, 

			  	 Hibernate, Oracle11i, 

			  	 WebSphere, Clearcase

KPITCummins InfoSystems pvt. Ltd.        Client: CUMMINS

             

Project: Form Migration and Modernization from 6.1 to 10g

             This application converts oracle forms in 6.1 to oracle 10g
compatible forms.

Along with conversion it also modifies the basic properties like
background color etc. during conversion. The compilation at run time was
also done and if there is some errors during Conversion or modernization
or compilation an error log for that file was created. This was done
using oracle provided jar JDAPI.

The processing time was too large (IN HOURS). To handle this http live
connection was kept open for more then 24 hours using direct web
remoting reverse ajax technology.

The real time processing messages were displayed to user using Server
Push Technology.

Duration: January 2010 to May 2010

Responsibilities: Design and  Development 

             Environment:   Struts MVC 1.3.8, Hibernate, JSP, Servlet,
Oracle10g, 

			 WebSphere6.1, Oracle 6.1, Oracle provided JDAPI (frmjdap jar) 

			 Netbeans 6.5, Loadrunner, VSS, Rational  Rose(UML)

Project : Key Employee Stock Investment plan

This is an application to manage the employee stock investment plan for
Cummins employees.This application handles all the transaction like
creating,editing and deleting

of contract,Reammortization,Refinance,Sale,Ownership. There is a report
section which displays the cumulative data of transaction done in the
form of HTML Display, PDF and excel sheets.

Duration: June 2008 to Dec 2009.

Responsibilities: Design( preparation of SRS, HLD, LLD) and  Development


             Environment:   Struts MVC 1.3.8, Spring Dependency
Injection and Spring Jdbc 

			DAO  Layer, JSP, Servlet, JSTL, JDBC, Oracle10g, WebSphere6.1, 

			 Netbeans 6.5, Loadrunner, VSS, Rational  Rose(UML)

Project: MyEngine 

	The HHPS-My Engine Service Event Manager Application is an important
tool that will gather real parts consumption data from service events
and will allow scheduling of these in advance. 

Duration:	Jan 0’8…June0’8

	Responsibilities: Development 

Environment:  Struts1.2, JSP, Servlet, JDBC, Oracle9i, WebSphere 5.1,
WSAD 5.1

                         Loadrunner, VSS, Rational  Rose(UML)

Project: Global Standard Quote (GSQ) 

             GSQ Application, for this project, is overviewed, to be an
application which provides a facility to create and modify Standard
Quote. A quote, is defined as an estimation of the time it takes to
perform a repair and the parts that are needed to complete the repair.

             Duration:  Feb 0’7…Dec 0’7

             Responsibilities: Development 

Environment:  Struts1.2, JSP, Servlet, JDBC,Oracle 9i, WebSphere5.1,
WSAD 5.1

                         Loadrunner, VSS, Rational  Rose(UML)    

      

Project: Webparts

	This project migrate existing WebParts Web Application from ATG Dynamo
to 

             J2EE.The WebParts application renders long list as a result
of                     

             parts/order/shipment/Invoice inquiries.

             Duration: September 0’6 … February 0’7

             Responsibilities: Development

             Environment:  Struts1.2, JSP, Servlet, JDBC,Oracle 9i,
WebSphere 5.1, WSAD 5.1,

                                       Loadrunner, VSS, Rational 
Rose(UML)

MphasiS Software & Services(I) Pvt. Ltd.

Projects: wwims (world wide identity management system)

This application manages all access to different application running
under the company globally. It allows to create new user, giving access
to the user,

And forget password functionality. 

              Duration: May 0’6….Aug0’6

              Responsibilities: Development and Maintenance of the
product

              Environment:  JSP, Servlet, JDBC,Oracle, WebSphere, WSAD
5.1,

                                       Loadrunner, Clearcase, ldap

Kanbay Software(India) pvt ltd.              Client: Household Bank now
HSBC

Project: WebFinance -  HouseHold – HFC (HSBC Credit card Application)

		Web Finance is based on the private Label credit card issued by the 

	retailers. This project includes the maintanence and development of the
Web 

	based management   system for the credit card issued to the
customer.The 

	WebFinance website facilitates Household to enable other dealers to
directly 

	connect with Household. The application is web based application which 

	establishes complete  loan application process.

            Duration: Jan ’04…Dec ’04

            Responsibilities: Development and Maintenance of the product

             Environment:   JSP, Servlet, JDBC,Oracle, WebSphere, WSAD
5.1  

                                       Loadrunner, Clearcase, Rational 
Rose(UML)

Project: Web Finance – Merchantweb (HFC) (HSBC Credit card
Application)

		The Merchantweb application enables the webfinance users to view the 

	documents related to the WebFinance application. 

	Duration: Jan ’05…Apr 0’6 

	Responsibilities: Development and Maintenance of the product

	Environment:   JSP, Servlet, JDBC,Oracle, WebSphere, WSAD 5.1

			Loadrunner, Clearcase, Rational  Rose(UML)

Ellipse International

Project: DAM(Digital asset management system) – Content management
system

	This application is used to manage heavy file systems integrated with
web application. There is a tool to build the dynamic static html pages,
to deploy the pages to the server. Workflow is also an integrated part
of this application to manage the flow. 

            Duration: July’03 …Jan 0’4

            Responsibilities: Development and Maintenance of the product

	Environment:  JSP, Servlet, JDBC,Oracle, WebLogic, VSS

Project: Pfizer	

			 HYPERLINK "http://www.pfizer.com" www.pfizer.com 

			 HYPERLINK "http://www.pharmaciaalumni.com/" www.pharmaciaalumni.com 


		 HYPERLINK "http://www.pharmacia.com/" www.pharmacia.com ;

		Development and Maintanence of web site.

       Various functionalities related to Paharmacia Alumni web site
were developed. It 

        included various section as keeping profile of all employee in
the company , Jobposting , 

        Recruiter details , search section , colleagues details etc.

        Duration: Feb’03 …July 0’3

	  Responsibilities: Development and Maintenance of the product

	  Environment:  JSP, Servlet, JDBC,Oracle, WebLogic, VSS

  PAGE \* Arabic  1 

	

