GEET KHOKHAR

  





E-8, Third Floor, Flat No. -6

Prashant Vihar,

New Delhi- 110085

Mobile     : +91-9818262559

Email_id : geet.libran@gmail.com



                                                                                                                   

Objective	

	To strive for excellence in the field of software development – with dedication, focus, proactive approach, positive attitude and to utilize my knowledge and skills of java in the best possible way for the fulfillment of organizational goals.

	

Professional Summary	

4 Years  of total experience in software development.

4 + of relevant experience on Java/J2EE. 

Experienced in Software Development using Agile Methodology.

Possess sound knowledge of OOPs Concepts.

Worked exceptionally well as both team player and individual performer.

Hard Worker , good listener and communicator.

Self-Motivated with Positive Approach, Adapts to changes easily.

Involvement in client communication in the projects.

	

	

Work Experience	

Working with Aricent Technology, Gurgaon as Senior Software Engineer since July, 2013.

Working with Aricent Technology, Gurgaon as Software Engineer since April, 2011.

Worked with Aricent Technology, Gurgaon as Trainee Software Engineer from Oct, 2010 to March 2011.





Skill Summary

Programming Languages 

Java

Java/J2EE Technologies

Swings, Multithreading, Spring, Hibernate, JSP

Web/Application Server

Apache Tomcat, Jetty

Design Patterns

MVC Architecture, Singleton, Factory Patterns etc.

	Tools/IDE

Eclipse, Log4j, Slf4j, JBuilder. 

	Source Code Management

Perforce, GITHub

Others

Data Structure, Junit, XML, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, Jquery, FLOT charts, LDAP





Project Summary



Project #1

CBNL (Cambridge Broadband Network Limited)  - VNMS 

Client

Duration

CBNL 



Feb 2014 to till date

Project Description

VNMS(VectaStar Network Management System) of CBNL is already built NMS integrated with OpenNMS. Currently working on developing complete new web based next gen VNMS for the client.

Responsibility

Requirement understanding thoroughly from the client/lead.

Effort estimations, LLD, HLD .

Development of end to end feature.

Unit testing of the feature.

Maintenance of feature.

Technologies

Spring, Jquery, Hibernate,FLOT and JUnit Framework

Team Size

14



Project #2

OmniVista (Network Management System)

Client

Duration

Alcatel-Lucent, USA



April 2012 to Feb 2014

Company Description

Alcatel-Lucent has introduced a product called OminVista which is used for fault, configuration, provisioning and activation for STB’s, Routers and lot of other devices. Uniqueness of this product is- it has multivendor and multiprotocol support.

Project Description

OminVista is primarily a Network/Element management system which is being

used in USA.

It is an extensible, Java-based, management system that provides the basic components required for NM/EM systems. It provides FCAPS functionality for management systems. 

The project tends to provide the development and sustenance support for the Alcatel Lucent’s proprietary software “OmniVista 2500 NMS”.Software download and upload on STB’s etc.

Responsibility

Requirement understanding thoroughly from the client

Preparation of HLD and LLD.

Development of end to end feature.

Feature presentation to the client.

Unit testing and Maintenance of the feature.

Technologies

Core Java

Team Size

14





Project #3

Hybrid access card support for OMSN-ISA (release 4.0)

Client

Duration

Alcatel-Lucent, Vimercate, Italy



July 2011 to April 2012

Company Description

Alcatel-Lucent has introduced a product called OMSN . 

Project Description

As of before this release, ISA-ES boards were supporting two kind of access cards i.e. FE access card and GE access card. In this release, a new Hybrid access card was required to support to ISA-ES boards with the support of earlier access cards as well. New hybrid access cards have both kind of ports i.e. FE and GE.

Responsibility

Understanding of Client’s requirements and bug fixing for NE (GUI tool for viewing and configuring switches) – Craft Terminal 

Technologies

Core Java

Team Size

12





Academic Qualification

Completed MCA from G.N.I.M (G.G.S.I.P University), Delhi during 2007-2010 and secured 76%.



                                                                                                       

Achievements

Received snap awards for the problem solving skills, debugging skills and the dedication in OmniVista, CBNL project in Aricent.



Awarded “Star of the Month” in OmniVista project in Aricent.



Scored highest marks till date in training conducted by customer for VNMS project. Highly appreciated and Awarded by client for the same.

                  

                                                                                  

Personal Profile



Date of birth	   	:  25th SEP, 1985

Father’s Name 		:  S. Iqbal Singh

Hobbies			:  Playing Chess, Carrom, Cooking and implementing quotes in life



I hereby declare that the above written particulars are true to the best of my knowledge and belief.









Date:……………. 

Place: Gurgaon								(Geet Khokhar)