Spring: 4 years& current

Hibernate: 4 year& current

Web services: REST(1 year)

Java: 7.10 Years

Maven

Application: Jboss/weblogic

UMl Design: Yes

Design Pattern: Yes

DB: oracle/Mysql

                     Objective:

              To work in progressive environment using latest Java/J2EE
technologies. A growth oriented position utilizing my technical,
analytical, designing, programming and implementation skills. To
contribute in growth of self and organization by achieving new level of
success in the Java/J2EE technical sector. 

Summary :

Having 7.10 years of IT experience and technical proficiency in
Java/J2EE technologies, & 4 years Corporate Training and programmer
experience ( Total 11+ Years experience).

Exposure to Java, J2EE, Spring , JSF & Struts and Hibernate Frameworks. 


Expertise in Web Technologies (Java/J2EE) and Windows Applications
(Swings).

Involved in technology modernization/tool project. (From
Forte/PowerBuilder to Java)

Successfully delivered various client POCs.

Extensive involvement in all stages of Application development life
cycle including requirements gathering, design, development,
implementation and support.

Strong expertise in various industries like Health Care, Manufacturing
domain, Traffic Management, Financial and Banking Applications and
Migration Applications.

Extensive knowledge in designing and tuning Database tables, Stored
Procedures / Packages, Functions and Triggers in Oracle 9i/10g/11g. 

Expertise in OOPS, Design Patterns.

Excellent ability to learn and adapt to new technology with emerging
trends.

Have good communication and interpersonal skills.

Multi tasking attitude and ability to motivate the team members as well
as extensive knowledge of advanced technical tools and applications.

Strong analytical skills and ability to communicate with the clients.

Have played the roles of  Lead, Programmer and Training Consultant at
various points in time during the course of the career. Actively
involved in training project team members.

Has experience of executing projects at client locations 

( Infosys-Banglore, Infor-QVC-Germany, Mphasis-Bangalore).

Education :

Master of Computer Applications from Osmania University.

Bachelor of Science with Maths, Statistics and Computer Science from
O.U.

Intermediate from Board of Intermediate Education A.P.

S.S.C from G.H.S.M.L.

Certifications

Sun Certified Programmer for the Java Platform, SE 5.0

Salesforce.com Certified Force.com Developer  ( Dev401 )

Technical Skills  :

Operating Systems	Windows 7, XP, NT, 2000 , MS DOS, Unix and Linux

Application Servers	Tomcat 5.0/6.0/7.0,  WebSphere 6.0, Jboss-4.0.5.GA

Programming Languages	Java, C, C++, SQL,  Power Builder, FORTE

J2SE Technologies	JDBC,  JDBC, Swings, Collections, RMI, JMS

Web Technologies 	HTML 4.0.1, DHTML, Servlets, JSP, JSF, Java Script,
Ajax

IDE/Tool	Eclipse , My Eclipse,  RAD 6, Oracle, SQL Developer, Win Merge,
Power Builder 11. Sonar, JProfile

RDBMS		Oracle,  MySQL, MS-SQL Server 2008

Version Control	CVS, SVN, Git.

Frame Works	MVC, Spring,  Hibernate, Struts, JSF.

Build Tools	Ant, Maven

Work Experience :

Working as Technical Lead with Softsol India Ltd., Info City, Hyderabad
from

 June 2007 to Till Date

Worked as an external corporate trainer at Tendrils System from Apr-2006
to May-2007. ( Client :  Satyam Learning Center [SLC] , Bahaddurpally
,Hyderabad – Trained more than 800 associates in Java/J2EE/C/C++/Data
Structures ).

Worked as Programmer at Stanford PG College, Bhongir  - from Jul 2003 to
May – 2007.

Current Project : CGI Trade 360 Global Transaction Platform 

Jan-2014 to till Date

Client	CGI - USA

Company Name 	Soft Sol India  Ltd

Role & Responsibilities	Technical Lead

Involved in the design phase

Involved in writing various utility/helper classes to automate the code
conversion.

Lead the team in the process of  code error free, Query tuning and code
walk through on top of the converted code

Power builder application debugging, code walkthrough.

Interaction with client.



Summary	

CGI Trade360 delivers all of the software, infrastructure and support
resources necessary to power a bank’s global trade business. CGI
Trade360 enables banks to provide the full range of traditional trade,
payables, receivables and cash management services to their customers
anywhere, anytime on a single, integrated and global platform. It also
drives significant savings by reducing internal operating costs and
allows banks to focus on growing their business.

The CGI Trade360 platform is comprised of a corporate portal, an
efficient back-office trade processing system with sophisticated imaging
and workflow, an advanced reporting utility, and XML-based integration
architecture.

Technologies Used	Core  JAVA, Spring, Spring JPA, REST, Hibernate, HTML,
AngularJS,

Power Builder, Oracle.



Project#2 – ICare ( LongTerm Care Partners ) -  Jun'12  to Dec-13.

Client	Infosys, Bangalore

Company Name 	Soft Sol India  Ltd

Role & Responsibilities	Team Lead - System Analyst :

Converted PowerBuilder code into Java ( Struts)

Task Assignment to team and Code Repository Management.

Taking part in Framework Integration at client location Infosys -
Bangalore.Developed and integrated the transactions like Change Bill
Freeze Code, Alter Cap Amount, Re-Instatement, Billing History
Maintenance, Maintain Billing Location Schedule, Reverse Refund and
Payment Reversal.

Done JSON implementation and Exception handling management.



Summary	ICare application is an intranet application for insurance
managed by Customer Service Representatives. This application belongs to
a client Long Term Care partners, U.S.A. and is maintained by Infosys
Limited. Through this application new members can be created, enrolled
in different insurance plans, searched, details can be edited, claims
processing can be done, payment could be made, and many more. This
project is a re-engineering project which is to be converted from Power
builder to Java. The project is divided into 5 phases depending upon the
functionality and dependency on other modules. Out of these phases
phase-1 and phase-2 were converted manually from PB code to Java code.
For Phase-3, PB code was converted to Java code automatically by a tool
maintained by a company named Softsol. The converted code is again wired
upto functioning modules and framework related changes are merged.
Phases 4 and 5 are under process.

Technologies Used	Java, Struts2, JSON, DB2



Project # 3 – Cyberabad Traffic Challan System (CTCS)   -  Sep'11  to
May’12

Client	Hyderabad Traffic Police , Cyberabad Traffic Police

Company Name 	Soft Sol India  Ltd

Role & Responsibilities	Team Lead - System Analyst

Requirement gathering at client location.

Database design.

Task Assignment to team and Code Repository Management.

Coding and Bug fixing.





Summary	CTCS is an application which will Integrate all the Cyberabad
Traffic Police Challan application developed in MS Dos based FoxPro and
Reports into one single Web application, Cyberabad Traffic  Police(CTP)
presently using MS Dos based application for Spot Challan/Crane
Challan/Photo Challan and to generate reports HTP collects all the 12
Police Station information through Phone call and prepares a Excel
report.

The following are the main modules of the system:

Photo Challan

Spot Challan

Crane Challan

PDA Device Servers

Photo Challan Printing

Accident Information system

Reports

Administration



Technologies Used	Java, JSF, XML, MySQL





Project # 4 - Tool Designing for PowerBuilder to Java Conversion -
Dec'09  to Aug’11

Client	Soft Sol India  Ltd

Company Name 	Soft Sol India  Ltd

Role & Responsibilities	Team Lead

Designed Java wrapper functions for the PowerBuilder functions..

Handled Architectural issues like Message Object.

Handled the Generation of managed beans.

Involved in the upgradation to Trinidad Framework from Sun
Implementation of Jsf.

Involved in Coding and Bug fixing.

R&D on latest technologies like Rich Faces,Ice Faces,Oracle ADF etc.



Summary	This is the PowerBuilder to Java conversion tool which converts
the PowerBuilder application to Java application. Tool reads the
PowerBuilder objects like Application, Window, DataWindow, user Objects,
Menu, Functions and Structures and converts into XML files. Those XML
files contain Object property tags and attributes. After creating the
XML files, tools reads XML files and load the data into classes and
generate java files using Apache Velocity template. Conversion tool also
handles SQL statements, cursors and procedures. It also generates same
GUI in JSF which is similar to PowerBuilder objects with control events.

Technologies Used	JSF, Struts 1.2, Core Java, Velocity Templates, XML



ONSITE EXPERIENCE: ( November – 2009 )

Exceed 3.4 Customized Warehouse Management System

Client	Infor Global Solutions (Germany)

QVC., HuckelHoven, Germany

Company Name 	Soft Sol India  Ltd

Role & Responsibilities	Had given knowledge transfer session on Java
Technology like JDBC,EJB,RMI,Using Eclipse IDE, ANT etc and gathered the
business requirements.



Summary	The Warehouse Management System, for controlling and managing
inventory in QVC warehouse Germany. The system consists of inventory
control and supports processes for receive, putaway, move, adjustment,
transfer, allocation, release of tasks, task manager directed tasks such
as replenishment, picking, reorg, shipping.

Technologies Used	EJB 3.0, ANT 6, AST 6.0(WebSphere).



Project # 5 - Exceed 3.4 Customized Warehouse Management System,

Aug 2009 – Nov 2009

Client	Infor Global Solutions (Germany)

Company Name 	SoftSol India Ltd.

Role & Responsibilities	Senior Software Engineer.

Involved in coding for Exceed Services using EJB3.0 and Server Socket
Connection listener using java.net.Socket.

Writing Build Script using Ant to make EAR for deploying into
WebSphere6.0 Server. 

Execution of Test Cases given by Client to test the Functionality of
Exceed Services from the PowerBuilder Client.





Summary	The Warehouse Management System, for controlling and managing
inventory in QVC warehouse Germany. The system consists of inventory
control and supports processes for receive, putaway, move, adjustment,
transfer, allocation, release of tasks, task manager directed tasks such
as replenishment, picking, reorg, shipping.

	The system runs against an oracle database containing inventory
information and the documents for the different processes (such as
purchase orders, receipts and shipment orders).

	The application consists of a number of partitions. Technically there
is a part1 replicated partition picking up processes, there is a socket
communication client for connecting to the server and in particular
sending requests to the part1 transactionserviceso and there are several
other partitions for handling things like multi threaded allocation,
multi threaded cartonization, multi threaded mot calculation and
release. Also a number of these partitions are replicated for better
performance.

Users use a Powerbuilder front end application to connect to the backend
through the socket interface. Also there is a c++ application which is
used for RF handheld devices which runs processes on the server and also
connects through the socket interface. Finally there is a forte
interface application which handles the interfaces from/to external
systems including host system, high bay storage, automatic belts and
other automated parts of the warehouse.

Technologies Used	EJB 3.0, ANT 6, AST 6.0(WebSphere), Oracle 9i



Project # 6 - PathLIMS (Pathological Laboratory Integrated Management
System)

	          - July 2008 to July 2009

Client	Genentech

Company Name 	Soft Sol India  Ltd

Role & Responsibilities	Software Engineer

Involved in development of code for various modules.

Involved in implementing MVC with Struts

Bug Fixing

Testing-unit Testing and Integration Testing

Maintenance of wrapper code



Summary	PathLIMS (“Pathology  Laboratory Integrated Management
System”) is used by the Genentech  team for their Laboratory work flow
the PathLIMS Application is used to record experimental Studies of
Pathology. The entire system consists of a few applications and
Interfaces to Laboratory Instruments. The PathLIMS is the heart of the
system. 

 	PathLIMS Project is divided in to 8 Modules Administration,CPLabs,
APLabs, IHC, HTB ,TMA ,Path Requests,ISH. The main objective of this
project is to generate reports and maintain the information about the
experiments conducted in different labs. The Users of this project are
the Lab Supervisors,Pathologists,Investigators and Lab Technicians each
users are assigned with different access privileges based on their role
.

        	PathLIMS application is for preventing redundant data entry and
efficient management of system which is used to maintain laboratory
activities. This application is used to service the customers through
online and track the activities through online. 



Technologies Used	JDK 1.5,Struts,JSP,AJAX,Tomcat 6.0.7,Oracle,Eclipse
3.4,Windows XP



Project # 7 -  DOMAIN, Sep’ 07 –  Jun'08

Client	Superior Court of California, County of Alameda, US.

Company Name 	Soft Sol India  Ltd

Role & Responsibilities	Software Engineer.

Implementation of Front-end (UI)

Functionality related to UI

Involved in development of code for various modules

Bug Fixing, Testing-unit Testing and Integration Testing

Maintenance of wrapper code



Summary	DOMAIN is an integrated case management and decision support
system for the Superior Court of California, County of Alameda.  An
acronym for Decision Support and Operations Management Information
System, the application standardizes procedures, definitions, and
statistical reporting to support the legal process and help judicial
officers, court staff, attorneys, and the public to manage court
information more efficiently.

This Windows-based application runs in a client/server environment,
using HP 9000 UNIX servers and Windows clients on Pentium workstations.
Built in a distributed environment, DOMAIN utilizes object-oriented
design methodologies, the Informix relational database, the Forte
application integrated development environment, and MSF&W imaging
software.

Technologies Used	Java1.6, swing, EJB3.0, Eclipse Lomboz 3.3,  Jboss-
4.2.3.GA, 

Ant Script (ant-1.6.5), Forte.

Reference: Details provide upon your request.

Mohammed Riyaz

Mobile : +91 9440948394





