Profile

Graduated from National Institute of Technology, Warangal with a BTech
MME degree

3 Years of overall IT experience in Java Development

Strong technical skills and Good Experience in Development, in-depth
knowledge in developing areas of Client-Server technologies using java
OOPS, Collections, Multithreading, JDBC,  JNDI , Frame works like
Spring, SQL 

Presently working as a Senior Application Developer in Inautix
Technologies India Pvt Ltd 

Have technical expertise across software development life cycle and
Application .

Quick learner and excellent team player having ability to meet deadlines
and work under pressure.

Committed worker, Sincere, Good team player, Good communication skills.

Professional Experience

Organization	Role	Period

Inautix Technologies India Pvt Ltd , Chennai	Sr. Application Developer
June 2012 – present



TECHNICAL Domain	Skills

Operating Systems	Windows 7, Unix

Languages	Java/J2EE,SQL

Database	Oracle 10g, IBM DB2

Technologies	Core Java ,Spring, SQL, Servlets, JSP, Toad

Application Servers	WebLogic 10.3.5, Apache Tomcat 6 & 7

Frameworks	Spring 3.0

Design Patterns	Singleton, DAO, MVC



Version controls		SVN



Academic Qualifications

Qualification	year	Percentage

B.Tech, NITW	2008-2012	7.17 CGPA

Sri Chaitanya Junior College	2006-2008	91%

SSC	2006	89 %



Projects in Work Place

Project #1:

     Client                                     : Bank of New York
Mellon

     Project Title                          : Actuate

     Duration                                : Jan 2013 –Oct 2014

     Company                               : Inautix Technologies

     Tools and technology used   : Java, JSP, Servlets, Jdbc,
Actuate,Oracle,Actuate. 

 Roles and Responsibilities 

Actuate is a responsible for Rendering Reports to Clients.

Responsible for Getting the parameters and sending it to the DB and also
fetching the data from the DB and making it run with custom
modifications 

The data access logic is purely coded in a Java program which is
integrated into Web Application for reducing the fragmentation of the
whole application.

Developed end-to-end Web and stand-alone Java Applications and deployed
on App and Web servers

Worked for improving the performance of the Application. 

Project #2:

     Client                                     : Bank of New York
Mellon

     Project Title                          : ERS

     Duration                                : June 2012 – Jan 2013 

     Company                               : Inautix Technologies

     Tools and technology used   : Java, Spring, JSP, Servlets, Oracle. 

Roles and Responsibilities 

ERS is an application specially designed for the clients to monitor and
measure their Investment data in Bank of New York Mellon.

Involved in migrating Workbench to ERS (Enterprise Reporting System)

Involved in implementing automation tools using Spring MVC Frame work.

Good hands on experience in Java , Spring, SQL and Apache Tomcat. 

Develop logics for better automation and custom functions in JAVA.

 Worked on developing Controllers and DAO’s.

Developed automation tool for testing web applications.

Project #3:

     Client                                     : Bank of New York
Mellon

     Project Title                          : WorkBench

     Duration                                : Oct 2014 to Present

     Company                               : Inautix Technologies

     Tools and technology used   : Java, JSP, Servlets,Spring, Oracle. 

Roles and Responsibilities 

 Developed application business logic using core java and involved in
migrating from Workbench v1 to v2 conversion

I hold the responsibility to manage various production issues related to
the application.

We developed and gave the production line software services for
Workbench and took care of various tickets that come up during the
business transactions. 

I worked on Development in Java and support various custom application
that were built and delivered to BNYM.

 Worked on new business requirements for the client for adding reports
to the application  

Good hands on experience in Java, Spring MVC and DAO, SQL. 

Awards Received

Won Spot Awards for my Efficient Work for Project Workbench.

Won National Level silver Medal in the Sport Archery in my Schooling.

Extra-Curricular Activities

Organized and Volunteered for the Hurt Locker Robotics event in
Technozion 2010.

Executive member of the Youth Red Cross Club, NITW.

Volunteered in Hospitality for Technozion 2008.

Declaration

I declare that the above details are true as for the best of my
knowledge and I will abide by them.

Name: Charitesh Reddy Tummala

Charitesh Reddy Tummala

Email :   HYPERLINK "mailto:chariteshr@gmail.com"  chariteshr@gmail.com
                                                                        
                                                                        
      +91-9940302348

