                                              CURRICULUM VITAE 

  

N.S.Chalapathi                                                          
            Flat No #101,

victorycoop@gmail.com                                                   

9959848200                                                              
         BS Maktha,   

                                                                        
                   hyderabad.,    

                                                                        
                   AP – 530006. 

 

Career Objective:

              Explore challenging projects and gain broad knowledge
across various domains.

Educational Qualifications:	

Examination	Discipline	School/College	Board/University	Year of passing
%/

CGPA

I.C.S.E	I.C.S.E	Good Shepherd English Medium School	I.C.S.E	2000	85.8

Intermediate	Maths,Physics,

Chemistry(M.P.C)	Vikas Vidyalayam Junior college	Board of intermediate
Education,

Andhra Pradesh	2002	93.4

B.E.	Electronics & Communication

Engg.(E.C.E)	Andhra University College of Engineering	Andhra University
2006	79.62

M.Tech	Computer Technology	Indian Institutue  of Technology,Delhi
IIT,Delhi

	2009	8.1



Work Experience:

                 

    MedHimalayas-drughub.in(25 March 2015 – 14 july 2015)

              Serving as a Software developer with web server
technologies at medhimalayas which spans across pharmacy domain and B2B
, B2C userbase.using PHP and java springs, hibernate.

Technologies Used : JAVA SPRING, PHP, OPENCART,REST API

 The Medhimalayas Pvt Ltd. Work involves developing a common platform
for all the pharmaceutical domain using Java Springs,Hibernate, etc

Integration of Anoto Pen using a WebService to capture details of
prescription 

   

   Freelance Coder (01 Feb 2011- 25 March 2015)

                  I have been working as a coder delivering specific
project across a span of domains including web and desktop based
application. I have a huge online presence with the clients from all
over the world and successfully delivered about 230 different small
scale and bigger projects. I have been associated with freelancer.com
pvt Ltd whose presence spans across various countires.and my profile is
at   HYPERLINK "http://www.freelancer.in/u/srinichal.html" 
http://www.freelancer.in/u/srinichal.html  with primary skillset
involving java.

Technologies Worked : JAVA,STRUTS,JSP,SPRING and HIBERNATE

Amazon Seller Automation tool to track and manage inventory, sales
specifically tailored to the client requirements. The client is a seller
associated with Amazon with the store name AZGeek store. -   HYPERLINK
"http://www.freelancer.in/projects/Excel-Amazon-API-Interface.html" 
reference for more information 

 Complete Instagram Management Solution developed with minimal
operations and more automation using the API –  HYPERLINK
"http://www.freelancer.in/projects/Custom-Project-Jan.4116410.html"
reference for more information 

Automated system for tracking and building various statistics of
different ticket transactions across a span of sites like stubhub and
alert system to gather the best price –   HYPERLINK
"http://www.freelancer.in/projects/http-www-freelancer-com-projects.4609
223.html"  reference for more information 

Automted system to clean up data and display them as a widget has been
done for the client Buffalow News – r HYPERLINK
"https://www.freelancer.com/projects/php/Property-Transactions-Date-Impo
rt-Export/" eference for more information 

PlanetOnline Pvt Ltd (07 June 2010 –  01 Feb 2011):

                 Served as a Senior Software Engineer(SSE) in insurance
domain which involved using GWT Framework to automate the insurance
processes and coding in Java GWT framework using hibernate and
springs.The Profile involved customizing the user interface and
generation corresponding interactions based on the business rules of the
insurance industry. 

Techology used : Java Spring , Hibernate,Maven

The Framework involved with Planetsoft is using PICF. The tools
developed are for insurance domain and made under Java. I have been
associated with the development of framework in java Spring Hibernate
along with GWT as the backbone. I have worked extensively under this
PICF framework.

Checktronix India Ltd (07 July 2009 – 25 March 2010) :

                 Served as Advanced software engineer in the in the
domain of resume parsing which includes extensive CPP with java coding
with NLP engine.The Profile involved coding in CPP with customizing the
system for various Resume formats depending on the country and make the
platform learn the formats specific to various countires like UK and US.
 

Technology used : Core Java, C++ 

Resume Parsing Engine that has been coded in Cpp and java using NLP
which mines and delivers the relevant candidates based on the search
requirements given by using different techniques of matching and parsing
the resumes and smartly distributing the chunks. I have worked with
checktronix for this project for about an year.

Tata Consultancy Services Ltd (T.C.S)   ( 23 May 2006 - 23 July 2007)
: 

 Served as Assistant Systems Engineer in T.C.S Ltd, Mumbai  in the
profile of SAP IT HR module. The profile involved monitoring and report
generation of SAP Germany servers and responding to the tickets tackling
various issues of the clients.

Projects : 

The Project with TCS Ltd. Involved maintenance of SAP HR, CRM systems
that are monitored and the necessary reports are delivered and system
bugs are resolved by means of a pre-defined procedure that is thoroughly
documented and given training.

Skills:

Holding a professional experience in C,CPP and Java  with good 
competency.

Scripting Languages include perl,python with experience in writing
crawling and automation tools

Java Spring,Hibernate, REST services,PHP and MVC OPENCART

 

