       Alapati Uday Bhaskar

E-mail: alapati.bhaskar@gmail.com         

Mobile: + (91) 9948935537

 Summary: 

Above 5 years of IT experience in software development involving all
phases of software life cycle analysis, design, coding, testing,
implementation, debugging.

Hands-on technology experience with CORE JAVA 

Hands on experience with   HIBERNATE, DB2 and Rest Api

Having knowledge of 3-tier layered architecture

Excellent experience in onsite-offshore model interacting with clients
and Onsite managers

Experience in development, functional testing and efficient at
fact-finding, root cause analysis and bug-fixing

Very well conversant with quality procedures and standards

Effectively communicated with application representatives from both IT
and Business to resolve issues

Self-motivated, hard working professional with good organizational and
leadership skills

Very good Team player with excellent interpersonal and communication
skills

Professional Qualification: 

B.Tech (7.1 CGPA) from Indian Institute of Information Technology,
Allahabad in May 2010.

Experience: 	

               Organization	Designation	        Place	Duration 

CSC India Pvt Ltd.	Professional1-

Product Developer	      Hyderabad	06 Aug 2010 – Till

Date



Technical skill profile: 

	

Operating Systems	Windows-XP,Win7

Languages	JAVA, HIBERNATE and JDBC

Databases	DB2

Tools & Utilities	Eclipse, SVN, Mainframes(Basics) and Git 

Web Server	Apache Tomcat 6.0

Application Server	Web Sphere

Domain Knowledge	Insurance  - Billing, Policy and Client Subsystems



Achievements:

      

I received Client Appreciations during deployment & Implementation of
Exceed product.

Got lot of appreciation certificates as a Movers/Shakers and Key
resource.

Member of winning team in HPCCL and won Man of the Match award.

Insurance Products:

Exceed: Policy and Billing subsystems

Roles and Responsibilities: 

	

	My task involved all the aspects of Software development life cycle,
analysis and designing of module. Then according to the algorithm I have
done coding. Once the coding part was over I have done unit testing.
This all involved compliance with the requirements and at the same time
with the quality standards. Final stage involved 

documentation of my module. Additionally I worked on other modules as
and when required.

Project Details: 

Project Name:	Exceed J Base

Client 	Kemper & CSC

Role	Team Member

Duration	September 2010 - July 2012

Environment

(with skill versions)	Languages : 	JAVA and Framework: Hibernate

	Database :	IBM DB2, SQL Server

	Tools :	Eclipse IDE, Tortoise SVN and Git Hub



Project Description: Exceed J is the IP of CSC. We are working with
Unitrin, to make significant changes in architecture of Exceed J. We are
into R & D work, involves proof of concept as deliverable. Worked on
enhancements as part of Billing Subsystem.

Technical Contribution: 

( Individual Contributor Responsible for Estimating, Design, Coding,
Reviewing, Unit testing for the requirements/assignments, support of
deployed application.

( Resolving technical issues, working on Service requests, reviewed
deliverables and engaged in correspondence on technical queries. 

( Tune the performance of a Java application and coding standards and
best practices for the project.

( Developed several User Defined Functions as per business requirements

( Working independently to get closure on Java design strategies for
topics such as logging, exception handling and unit testing.

Project Name:	Exceed J Base

Client 	CSC

Role	Team Member

Duration	July 2012 – August 2013

Environment

(with skill versions)	Languages : 	JAVA, SQL and Framework: Hibernate

	Database :	IBM DB2, SQL Server

	Tools :	Eclipse IDE, Tortoise SVN and Git Hub



Project Description: Exceed is an end-end Insurance product, Proprietary
product developed by CSC. It is a Enterprise Product which has various
subsystems like Policy, Billing, Claims, Print, Client, etc The product
is built on three tier architecture involving Front end, Middle ware and
Backend. Front end runs on Visual Basic, Java script and Middle ware
works on XML & XSL and Backend runs using DB2, JAVA and other Mainframe
technologies.

Technical Contribution: 

( Product Development.

( Exceed J Performance improvisation

( Analysis of enhancements and production issues

( Bug-fixes and coding for enhancements

( Working independently to get closure on Java design strategies for
topics such as logging, exception handling and unit testing.

Project Name:	Kemper-UX-Performance

Client 	Kemper

Role	Team Member

Duration	February 2014 - till date

Environment

(with skill versions)	Languages : 	JAVA

	Database :	IBM DB2, SQL Server

	Tools :	Eclipse IDE, Tortoise SVN ,Git Hub and Dyna trace Client



Technical Contribution: 

( Implemented caching to improve the performance.

( Optimized hibernate queries. 

( Optimized web service request and response time.

( Used DTC (Dyna Trace Client) to check the performance parameters.

Educational Qualification: 

B.Tech (7.1 CGPA) in 2010 from Indian Institute of Information
Technology, Allahadbad UP.

Intermediate (92%) in 2006 from Board of Intermediate (A.P.)

High School (89.10%) in 2004 from SSC (A.P.)

Personal Details: 

Father’s Name	             	:  Murali Mohan

Date of Birth		:  04/11/1988

Marital Status		:  Single

Nationality		:  Indian

Languages Known         	:  English, Telugu,and Hindi

Permanent Address        	:  H:no 2-5-196, Kalidasu Street Khammam.

Date:     

Place:	 Hyderabad									Alapati Uday Bhaskar

