Team Size: 6

Spring: 5 yr& current

Hibernate: 3 year

Web services: 2 year & Current

Java: 10year

Build tools: gradel

Eclipse

20/20%/60days

Rohit Bisht

Hyderabad, Telangana                                                    
                                                                        
                             91-9959882198 (Mobile)

bishtrs@gmail.com

Date of Birth 2nd Aug 1981

Objective:  Tech Lead / Java Architect

Technical Skills:

Languages: Java 7, SQL

Databases: MSSQL 2008, Oracle10g

Operating Systems: Windows 7, Linux

Frameworks: Spring 3.0, Axis2 Web Services, Hibernate, Terracotta,
JUnit, JMock, DBUnit

Others:  JMS, JDBC, Design Patterns, XML, SOAP

Web Technologies: JSP, Servlet, Spring MVC, Tomcat 

Tools: Eclipse3.7, Gradle, Ant 1.6.2, Jade, Perforce P4Win, Tortoise
SVN, Version One  

Work Experience:

Ivy Comptech, Hyderabad		  				       Feb 2012 – Till Date

Sr Systems Analyst

Project: User Account Services

Technologies: Java 7, Spring 3.0, SQL, Oracle, Web Services, Terracotta,
Spring MVC

Key Responsibilities:

System analysis, design and development of (using core Java, SQL,
Spring) components like Master Data Services (MDS). MDS provides user
information to internal & external systems and is responsible for
managing player data. Player information includes personal details,
gaming details, kyc details which is exposed to gaming clients as well
as b2b partners over web services.

Analyze and translate business requirements to task specifications.

Estimating design and development tasks.

Review and refactor legacy code.

Mentoring junior team members.

Code review using Code Collaborator to check for performance issues,
code conventions.

Responsible for developing new features, debugging and fixing
operational incident.

Provide recommendations to management concerning issues of programmer
productivity and

software development management.

Worked on moving all the http based Java API calls to RMI that reduced
timeouts during transactions.

Bank of America, Hyderabad		  				       May 2009 – Feb2012 Date

Sr Analyst

Project: Global Forex Exchange

Technologies: Java, Spring, JSP, SQL, Spring MVC

Key Responsibilities:

Development & maintenance of Java based applications like Trade Engine,
FXT Web. Trade Engine provides trading services like handling request
for quote, trade acceptance functions, and execution of FX trades. FXT
Web is used to execute Spot, Forward, Swap transactions online, in 145
currencies.

Interact with users to get requirements and implementing them.
Collaborate with QA team in helping them understand the enhancements,
functionality.

Provide technical guidance to junior team members and their code review.

Provide L3 support to users.

Bank of America, Hyderabad		  				        Jul2007– April 2009

Analyst

Technologies: Java, Spring, SQL, Hibernate 

Key Responsibilities:

Development & maintenance of Quixotic application which is used to allow
trades to be queried, entered, and amended. This application is a 3-tier
application used by around 25 traders and approximately 30-35 trades are
booked per day. It deals with interest rate derivative products like
Caps, FX Options Swaptions, etc.

Peer code review using Crucible.

Provide second line support to the traders.

Managed couple of releases which includes branch creation, merging
changes to mainline, coordinating with QA, UAT team to make sure the
smooth transition of application from development stage to production.

Fiorano Software, Hyderabad		  		      	                      May 2006
– Jul 2007

Senior Software Engineer

Technologies: Java, JMS, SQL

Key Responsibilities:

						       

Design, Development and Maintenance of Fiorano Adapters (JMS, FTP,
MQSeries) using Java, JCA which includes bug fixing, enhancement, adding
and executing unit tests.

Development and Maintenance of EDBC (Event Driven Business Components)
components based on JMS.

Peer code review for any fix, enhancement involving whether the code
conforms to the standard coding conventions and if performance can
improved.

Interaction with sales engineers to sort out their doubts and queries.
Sending hot fix to sales engineering team.

Coordinating with the technical writers in documenting the components
developed.

Wipro Technologies, Bangalore                                           
                                   June 2005 – April 2006

Project Engineer  

Technologies: Java, JSP   		      		               		                   
                              

Key Responsibilities:

Maintenance of Vitria BW 4.x application (in Java) used as the
middleware layer to manage the lifecycle of a drop ship order across
different systems. 

Maintenance of Web Application (used for creating customer orders and
updating their status) using JSP, Java Servlets.

Interact with onshore team members to analyze the new changes required,
prepare the estimates and suggest the modifications required in related
applications.

Interra Information Technologies, Noida                                 
                             June 2003 – April 2005

Member of Technical Staff

Technologies: Java, XML			               		   		                

Key Responsibilities:

Development and Maintenance of SAP R/3 RFC Connectors which utilizes the
SAP Java Connector framework called JCo to communicate will SAP Systems.
This involved work in Java using JCo & J2EE Connector Architecture
(JCA).

Enhancement of Vitria BusinessWare unit-test framework (used by around
50 developers), which involved modifications in the existing framework
using Java and XML Parsers (DOM) so that user can provide
configuration-based parameters using XML instead of hard coding them in
Java Application.

Defect fixing of various BusinessWare (BW 4.x) Connectors e.g. File
Connector, Http Connector and verification of the same, which involves
analysis, debugging and coding in Java.

Verification of defects fixed on different BusinessWare components and
coordinating with the other team members for any related issues.

Education: B-Tech, IIT Kanpur (May 2003)

