Sandeep Kumar.B						

E-mail: sandeepkumar.bs6@gmail.com

Mobile:+91 9949420047  				

                                                                    		       



Professional Summary:     

Experienced Software Professional with 9.1 years of total experience in JAVA/J2EE technologies with Analyzing, Design, Development, and Implementation of large Projects in Web based Environment 

Extensive experience working in Test Driven Development and Agile methodology.

I have an extensive knowledge and experience of software architecture, development processes, best practices, independent handling, final deliveries to Project Execution

Sound knowledge of understanding object oriented design and programming. 

Implementation knowledge in Designing

Domain expertise in Finance, Pharma and Logistics/Transportation.   

Enthusiastic while tackling the challenging projects, Quick learning curve on functional and technical aspects of the project.

Ability to get on with all levels of people and possess strong relationship building skills.

Onsite experience at client’s place Boston Financial Data Services.US.

					Experience Summary:  

		Working as a Project Lead with DST Worldwide Services, Hyderabad, from Sep-2011 to till date.

		Worked as a Sr.Software Engineer with WIPRO Technologies, Hyderabad, from Dec-2009 to Sep-2011.

		Worked as a Software Engineer with Logica (CGI) Chennai, from Dec 2008 to Nov 2009.

		Worked as a Software Engineer with Laya IT Services Pvt. Ltd. Bangalore, from May 2006 to Dec 2008.

			Academic Profile:			

Master of Computer Applications (M.C.A) from Acharya Nagarjuna University in 2006

Bachelor of Computer Applications (B.C.A) from Acharya Nagarjuna University in 2003

Technical Skills: 

							JAVA/J2EE 	   : J2SE 1.6,Servlets 2.3, JSP 2.0,EJB 3.0,RESTful web Services 2.0

							Frameworks		: Spring 3.1, spring Batch, Spring MVC, Spring Web flow, JSF 2.0

									  Struts 1.1, Spring Boot, JBOSS Seam 2.1			

							UI Tools		: Prime faces, Rich faces, JavaScript, JQuery, XML,Free Marker,JSON

							Persistence tools		: Hibernate 4.1,JPA 2.0

							Servers		: JBoss 4.2,Tomcat 7.0

							IDE		: Spring Tool Suite, Net Beans, Eclipse.

							DataBases		: Oracle 10g, MySQL 5.0, Ms-Sql Server 2008 R2.

							Tools		: Liquibase, Enterprise Architect,SVN, Maven, Toad, Log4j,TestNG,

							  PL/SQL developer, JUnit, JIRA, Cloud Bees.

					Projects Accomplished:

	

	Project # 1     	             	   : Settlement Administration Event Center (SAEC)	

		Role 	: Project Lead

		Organization	: DST

		Client	: Boston Financial Data Services (BFDS).USA.

		Duration	: Sep 2011 – Till Date

		      Technology                          	 : J2SE 1.6, spring 3.1,Spring Batch, Spring Web Flow, Hibernate 4.1, JPA 2.0, JSF 2.0,Prime faces 3.3, spring roo, REST Services, Maven, Tomcat 7.0, GitHub, Liquibase

	

	Project Description:

	                              SAEC system is used to support the management of class action settlements in US. The system mainly deals with claim processing more efficiently and settles millions of dollars which happen in millions of transactions. This is a flexible component service model that can be customized to accommodate any settlement need. This system mainly deals with administration and data management, claims processing, distribution and tax reporting.

		      It manages much functionality like Account search, new account creation, Account Maintenance, Claim processing, Check processing representing the settlement amount to all its claimants. Claimants address validation happened through infoage which is a third party vendor where data transmission happened through xml files and batch processing.

		     All the settlements happened through the checks of the concerned claimants and the banks like state street and deutsche banks are involved in this process, thousands of records transfer happened through file exchange between banks and Boston Financial Data Services. There are many kinds of batch jobs which has both inbound and outbound processing in the form of text, xml, excel formats

	

	Role & Responsibilities:

	

	Involved in development and leading the team.

	Followed the TDD (Test Driven Development) and agile methodology.

	Manage technical process and resolve technical issues.

	Identify risks, prioritize the risks and plan mitigations.

	Collaborate with team and implemented new tools in the project.

	Understand and document project requirements and dependencies.

	Planning resources required, effort estimates and schedule.

	Communicate deliverable status to stakeholders, and drive periodic review meetings.

	Interact with stakeholders to understand their expectations.

	Project release management through cloud bees.

	

	Project # 2     	                          : GSK CRMSD (Customer Relationship Management   

					     Solutions Delivery)

		Role 	: Developer  

		Organization	: Wipro

		Client	: GlaxoSmithKline (USA)

		Duration	: Dec 2009 – Sep 2011

		      Technology                          	 : J2SE 1.6, Spring MVC 2.0.6, Hibernate 3, Oracle 10g, Net beans 6.9.1, Tomcat 6.0, Log4J.

	

	Project Description:

GSK is a global healthcare and pharmaceutical provider, as part of this Customer Relationship Management Solutions Delivery it has care management central (CMC) and healthcoach4me applications which will help health care providers, clinicians and professionals.

CMC: Non-branded disease management content promoting adherence has become a strategic priority in GSK.  GSK has an opportunity to work with customers in the management and implementation of these through CMC.

	

	Educate clinicians and professionals about the hospital quality measures  

	Help improve the healthcare delivery processes

	Support organizations who strive to meet the components of the hospital quality measures

	HealthCoach4Me is an easy-to-use interactive Web application designed for people who want to take charge of their health, but need a little help along the way.  There are two main components of the application the Health Library and My Coaching Plan. With health library we can customize our health goals, track our results using interactive assessments, quizzes, diaries, checklists and actions plans, and view our progress on your personalized dashboard. With Coaching Plan we can select the areas where we want to see the improvement such as asthma, COPD, and we can receive coaching messages and tips to help you stay on track. In this application we can choose how often we want to receive reminders, via email or text, from our virtual health coach.

	

	Role & Responsibilities:

	

	Involved in backend development part of the applications.

	Coding business logic using spring controller’s viz. Core Controllers, View controllers, Multiaction controllers, Wizard controllers, Form controllers and Command controllers.

	Adding services in service layer of framework for data processing.

	Vaccine locater tool for diseases through Google maps (Key functionality to lookup for availability of GSK’s vaccines for diseases within specified radius of distance in particular area zip-code with Google Map for getting directions to the vaccine locations).

	Use of J-Query for client side validation of data fields, J-Query’s AJAX methods for partial page submission and controlling and tracking events on the webpage.

	Build preparation and release to GSK with Change Requests and ticket fixes.

	Involved in writing unit test cases and Code review.

	Checking Coding Standards with Check Style.

					

	Project # 3     	                          : TNT UMBRELLA

		Role 	: Developer  

		Organization	: Logica

		Client	: TNT (UK)

		Duration	: Dec 2008 – Nov 2009

		Designing Tools	: EA

		      Technology                          	 : J2SE 1.5, JBoss Seam 2.1, JSF 1.2, Hibernate 3, EJB 3, Oracle 10g , Eclipse 3.3, JBOSS 4.2, Test NG, Log4J.

	

	Project Description:

Umbrella  is an application designed to support the business processes of TNT.These processes encompass the sales, planning, preparation and execution of the distribution of doordrop media (unaddressed mail) to households in the UK or, in some cases, outside of the UK. The DDM processes start with a request for the distribution of doordrops, which can be entered into the system as a quotation. 

If the quotation is accepted by the client, a contract is created with one or more briefs, and the exact regions and sectors where the doordrops are to be distributed need to be entered into the system (the schedule). The contract is confirmed by the client; then, based on the information in the contract and briefs, the system generates instructions for the logistics process, to ensure that the doordrops are transported from the location where they are printed in the correct quantities to the distributors. The system also generates instructions for the distributors to actually distribute the doordrops. 

In addition, Umbrella  has a financial component which computes the amounts to be billed to the customers for the requested distributions based on pricing tables and rules, as well as the amounts to be paid to the distributors for the distribution work based on rate tables and rules. Umbrella  is a web-based application where various users can log in, each authorized to work with specific system functions on specific tasks.

	

	Role & Responsibilities:

	

	Involved in developing Order, Operations and Report modules

	Involved in Designing LLD for Order and Operation Modules.

	Involved in developing UI with Rich Faces and JSF.

	Involved in writing TestNG test cases and Code review.

	Involved in R&D work on complex issues in Seam.

	Involved in setup Environment for project.

	Involved in Studying the Domain Model, Supplementary Specification, Application Story 

     	 Board and Software Architecture Documents, updating the query log.

	Checking Coding Standards with Check Style.

	

	Project # 4    	                          : e-Pariksha	

		Role 	: Developer  

		Organization	: Laya IT Services Pvt.Ltd.

		Duration	: Oct 2007 – Dec 2008

		      Technology	: J2SE 1.5, JSP 2, JSTL 1.1, Spring MVC 2, Hibernate 3, 

			   Mysql 5.0, Tomcat 5.5. SVN 1.4, Junit, Eclipse 3.3.  	 

Description:   

It is an Advanced & Powerful Web-Based Application for conducting online exams and Generating Question Papers. e-Pariksha is an online assessment platform that allows students the opportunity to strengthen their academic foundation by identifying their strengths & weaknesses. It also helps the organization or an Individual from the loss of expertise and also saving ample of time in doing the same work manually repeated.

This Product is classified into 2 Categories: OLE gives added flexibility in terms of conducting or taking the exam with lesser limitations to place and time, and gives both the Admin and Candidate immediate Results for faster Evaluation or Selection Process in comparison to Traditional testing.GQP is used to generate Question paper from a Massive Database of Questions pertaining to various Subjects ranging from School to University level. Each question is assigned an attribute or property which can be called for at the time of Generation of Question Paper. The user may group the questions in Sections, Groups, Difficult Levels, Topics, etc.The Question paper is generated on the basis of Random Selection.



Roles & Responsibilities: 

Involved in server side development for the application.             

Implemented presentation layer using JSP.

Developed DAO layer classes using Hibernate.

Involved in writing database queries using HQL.

Involved in writing validations.



Project # 5     	                          : Accounting Genius	                                 

		Client	: Globiz Company Private Ltd.Maldives.  

		Role 	: Developer  

		Organization	: Laya IT Pvt.Ltd

		Duration	: May 2006 – Sep 2007

		      Technology                        	 : J2SE 1.4, JSP 2.0, Servlets 2.3, JDBC, Mysql5, Tomcat 5



Description:   

Accounting Genius is an application used for Invoicing, billing to fulfill the needs of the small businesses. Track customer payments and outstanding invoices. Preview, print or email invoices as a Word attachment, able to add a logo to our documents. Powerful search and find options to find our past invoices. The intuitive interface lets you complete web pages to build invoices, calling on databases of customers and products that are similarly easy to update and maintain. Preview and print powerful reports and charts instantly like invoice listings, sales by customer, outstanding invoice list, customer statements and more. 

Roles & Responsibilities: 

Involved in development of business logic for whole project.

Involved in implementing presentation logic using JSP.

Understanding client requirements.     

Involved in writing database queries.