Pre-screening Technical Questionnaire :-





From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience) the following technologies?  



Hibernate                                             -  2.5year                                               

Spring                                                    - 2.5 Years                                               

Web Services                                       -  4 years                                                

Core Java                                              -  8.4 years                

Design Patterns                                   -  6 years            

UML design                                          -   2.5 Years

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)                   -    2.5 maven ant 8yrs   

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools etc.]

Eclipse,google code pro,optimisation,sonar 



Hands-on skills in the following technologies ?



Hibernate                                                            -     1year

Spring                                                                   -      1 Years

Web Services [Restful and/or SOAP]              -      2 years

Core Java                                                             -       7years

Design Patterns                                                  -       2  Years                

Others if any, specify





Strongest technology areas of the candidate          -  Core java ,  Web Services



Any certification                                                         -     



Current project type                                                                                      -              Development Or Maintenance [Bugs and/or Enhancements]                                      -               End to end(support, launch)



Current job role & responsibilities of the candidate along with day-wise work contributions [ % of code; % of design etc.]      -  Mix 



Unit Testing Experience                                                                                -              Manual Or Automation [TestNG or Junit or Others specify] with # months/years     -  Manual – SOAP UI





Any supplement skills and knowledge areas or experience of the candidate that we should know about ?      -  SQL



Strengths and Weaknesses of the candidate    - Strength – quick learner   - weakness – time flexibility



Does the candidate know about our company?     - Yes , after the telephonic  conversation



Does the candidate know about the job profile (JD) of the applied position in our company? Yes , after the telephonic  conversation



Willing to work in Start-ups like us?  - Yes



How the candidate wanted to GROW in the future (Technology Or Management)?  - 



Problem solving skills?  - Yes



Experience in guiding the team technically? - Yes



Code review experience?  - Yes -  2 years



Does the candidate has any job offers in hand?   - No





Note:-

Red colored items are additional mandatories for TL position only.  Having all these are added advantage for SE/SSE positions.



The following are the minimum technical expectations from the candidates of SE/SSE/TL positions.

Technology                         Topics

Hibernate            -              Mappings, Associations/Relationships, Caching, HQL, Criteria Queries, Others if any

Spring                   -              IOC – Dependency Injection, AOP, MVC, ORM, Security, Others if any

Web Services     -              RESTful WS, SOAP WS, Others if any

Core Java             -              Oops, Exceptions, Collections, Reflection, Others if any