3 people – team size

Springs:2 year & current

Hibernate: 4 year & current

Webservices: REST

Build tools:Maven

DB: oracle/mysql

Application: weblogic/websphere/tomcat

UMLDesign: yes

Design patter: yes

RAMESH ELKATURI

  HYPERLINK "mailto:ramesh.elkaturi@gmail.com" 
ramesh.elkaturi@gmail.com 					+91-9848818752

Summary:	

Having 8 Years of experience in Software Development, working on
distributed applications in N-Tier J2EE Architecture.

Have 1 years Domain experience and conceptual knowledge on Life science
& Healthcare sector.

Have 2 years Domain experience and conceptual knowledge on Banking &
Financial sector.

Have 3 years Domain experience and conceptual knowledge on e-retailing
sector and search logic like Google using Lucene API.

Have 2 years Domain experience and conceptual knowledge on e-learning
sector.

Good experience in developing and maintaining project life cycle through
all phases (SDLC) and development methodologies.

Having excellent understanding of the QUALITY measurements and their
importance for a successful project.

Excellent Communication and Inter-personal skills and goal oriented.

Worked in Onsite/Offshore model for different projects.

Recognition for successful delivery of the Western Union based project
and received a performer of the month Award.

Professional Experience:

Working as Team Leader in   HYPERLINK "http://www.persistent.com/" 
Persistent , Hyderabad from Nov 2013. Persistent is a global company
specializing in software product development and technology services.
For more than 20 years, we’ve partnered closely with pioneering
start-ups, leading enterprises and the world's largest technology
brands.

Worked as Sr IT Engineer in   HYPERLINK "http://www.cmcltd.com/" CMC
Limited  a CMMI Level 5 company, CMC Limited is a leading IT solutions
company and a subsidiary of Tata Consultancy Services Limited ( 
HYPERLINK "http://www.tcs.com/" \n _blank TCS Ltd  ), one of the world's
leading information technology consulting, services and business process
outsourcing organizations, Hyderabad from Dec 2010 to Nov 2013.

Worked as Senior Software Developer in   HYPERLINK
"http://www.ereasoning.com/" reasoning , Hyderabad from Aug 2007 to Dec
2010. Which build multi-channel retail solutions that enable retailers
to leverage Internet and Mobile platforms to enhance their business; it
enable them to build a strong online identity, increase online as well
as in-store sales.

Educational Qualification:

       

Master of Computer Applications from Kakatiya University, A.P in 2005.

Technical Skill Sets:

Platform	Windows, Linux

Languages	JAVA 2.0(jdk1.5), jdk 1.6, J2EE (Servlet, JSP, JDBC)

Web Technologies	JSP, HTML, XML, JAVA SCRIPT, Ext Js 2.2, JQuery, CSS,
Web Services

Frame Works	Struts 1.x, Spring 3.x and JAFFA

ORM Tools	Hibernate 3.0

IDE	NetBeans 7.0, Eclipse3.0. And RAD (IBM)

Application Server	JBoss4.0.5 GA, IBM Web sphere Application server,
Tomcat 6.0

Project Management	Tortoise CVS, SVN, Bugzilla, JIRA, Redmine, Maven,
Sonar Cube

Back End	Oracle 10 g , SQL server 200X, MySQL

Integration Tools	Jenkins

Design Tool 	Visual Paradigm 8.2, Rational Rose



Project Profile:

Project #1

Title			Electronic Laboratory Notebooks (ELN)

Client		 	Agilent Technologies

Duration	 	July -2014 to till date

Team size	9

Role		Team  Lead

Environment		 	J2EE, Spring 3.0, Hibernate 3.0, AgularJS, CSS, MySql
Server and AWS Cloud

Description	Electronic Laboratory Notebooks (ELN) nowadays has become a
commodity product amongst the academic and research circles of the
life-sciences and pharmaceuticals industry. For many years ELNs have
been used by the community in a traditional (on-premise) way, where the
ELN environment is setup in the company’s private data center
environment. The on-premise way of delivering ELN, however, introduces
significant challenges for the end users in terms of incurring initial
investment and maintenance costs.

Responsibilities	Served as a Team Lead and developer for an application
consisting of Java, Spring, Hibernate, Mysql.

Designed architecture of the Application.

Managed bug tracking & Fixing using JIRA.

Acted as Scrum Master.

Involved in code reviews using sonar cube.



Project #2

Title			Napier HIS 3.0

Client		 	Napier

Duration	 	Dec -2013 to Jun 2014

Team size	5

Role		Developer, Module Lead

Environment		 	J2EE, Spring 3.0, Hibernate, Struts, ExtJs, CSS, SQL
Server. 

Description	Napier’s Hospital information system delivers a web based,
modular, scalable and tightly integrated system that built around the
core functions supporting hospital administration, financial and patient
management. It also allows organization to achieve electronic health
record, patient safety, revenue cycle management and more…

Responsibilities	Technical Consultant to the project

Served as a mentor and developer for an Emergency Trauma Care Module.

Bug fixing & tracking using Bugzilla.

Developed unit test cases using JUnit for Module code coverage.

Involved in code reviews.



Project #3

Title			Agent Registration & Configuration

Client		 	Western Union

Duration	 	June -2012 to till Nov - 2013

Team size	4

Project size	7

Role		Developer, Module Lead

Environment		 	J2EE, Quartz, Spring 3.0, Hibernate, Struts, Servlet,
JSP, JQuery, Web Services, CSS3, SQL Server and Oracle.

Description	Agent Registration & Configuration console that allows
agents and SSE to easily register new locations/terminals, download
certificates and to configure them.

Responsibilities	Technical Consultant to the project

Served as a mentor and developer for a comprehensive application
consisting of Java, Spring, Quartz, JavaScript, JQuery, Web Services,
CSS3, SQL Server and Oracle.



Project #4

Title			BPAY

Client		 	Western Union

Duration	 	Aug-2011 to June - 2012

Team size	4

Project size	16

Role		Developer, Module Lead

Environment		 	J2EE, JAXB, Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Servlet, JSP,
JQuery, WebService, CSS3, Ant1.6.5, SQL Server, web sphere and DWR

Description	BPAY is the most popular bill payment service in Australia, 
 BPay as an alternate payment option, the AU WU.com site will appeal to
a far broader customer segment and along with debit cards will be a key
driver to open the AU WU.com service to the mainstream market in
Australia



Responsibilities	Wrote the Use Case Documents

Wrote the High-level Design Documents 

Served as a mentor and developer for a comprehensive application
consisting of Java, Spring, Hibernate, Struts, JAXB 2.1, Servlet, JSP,
JavaScript JQuery, WebService, CSS3 and SQL Server.

Worked as team lead to distribute the work to team members and getting
done them with the specified time frame. Interact with team members and
cleared the issue which they have and traced the status of the each
member on the team.

Preparing Impact analysis for customer raised issues.

Defect Tracking



Project #5

Title			GOLDesp

Client		 	Miro Technologies/RSAF

Duration	 	Dec -2010 to March -2011

Team size	10

Project size	30

Role		 Developer

Environment		 	J2EE, Jaffa, JAXB, Struts, JSF, Hibernate, Servlet, JSP,
Ant1.6.5,    Oracle9i, JBoss 4.05GA, ExtJS 2.2, WebService and CSS3.

Description	GOLDesp is our Any Asset, Anywhere, Anytime solution that
supports maintenance, supply, repair, and operations for total lifecycle
support management of complex assets for air, land, sea and space. The
web-based GOLDesp suite merges global asset visibility with complete
product life-cycle management into a commercial, off-the-shelf (COTS)
application that can be configured to support:

Responsibilities	Worked as developer for a comprehensive application
consisting of Java, Struts, JSF, Hibernate, JAXB 2.1, Servlet, JSP,
JavaScript, ExtJs, WebService, CSS3 and Oracle.

Designed and implemented user-friendly WebPages using ExtJs and CSS.

Worked on the cross-browser issues between(Mozilla 3.6 and IE 8)

Preparing Impact analysis for customer raised issues.

Defect Tracking



Project #6

Title			Assets (GoldEsp)

Client		 	Miro Technologies/Boeing

Duration	 	March -2011 to Aug 2011

Team size	10

Project size	30

Role		Developer

Environment		 	J2EE, Jaffa, JAXB, Struts, JSF, Hibernate, Servlet, JSP,
Ant1.6.5,    Oracle9i, JBoss 4.05GA, ExtJS 2.2 and CSS3.

Description	This Modification is undertaken in support to track the
Boeing’s High Value Assets. Assets are items which form parts of
Aircraft. An Aircraft is made up of several Assets. The Assets are which
have been tracked in GOLDesp are being handled by this Software.

Assets Module is being undertaken to have inquiries, create a new Asset
and to convert To Asset from existing Item record, Transactions on Asset
and maintaining Asset Structures

The Transactions on Assets are designed by using JMS messaging
Architecture. Based on this Architecture the Asset Transactions are
configured using xml configuration file. The Asset Structures are
developed using rich GUI ExtJS 2.2. 



Responsibilities	Served as a developer for a comprehensive application
consisting of Java, Struts, JSF, Hibernate, JAXB 2.1, Servlet, JSP,
JavaScript, CSS3 and Oracle.

Designed and implemented user friendly web pages using ExtJs and CSS.

Worked on the cross-browser issues between(Mozilla 3.6 and IE 8)

Preparing Impact analysis for customer raised issues.

Defect Tracking



Project #7

Title			Parent Communication System

Client		 	Reasoning

Duration	 	Aug -2009 to Dec 2010

Team size	12

Project size	12

Role		Developer

Environment		 	J2EE, Servlet, JSP, Struts, WebService, Flex, SQL Server,
JBoss 4.05GA and CSS. 

Description	pcom is the ultimate online communication solution for
educational institutions. We have implemented following features to
bridge gap among children, parent and school management.

•    Online School Portal 

•    Academic reports, mark sheets, activities update 

•    Academic calendars, holiday calendars, attendance sheet 

•    Updates and routine information 

•    Complete information of the Child and Parents 

•    Transport System online 

•    Online Fee Payment 

•    Two way SMS 

•    Parents-Teachers direct communication by email

•    Forum for interaction between Parents

Responsibilities	 Implemented Login and Authentication process using
Front Controller Servlet.

Validations of forms are done using JavaScript and Struts Frame work.

Developed User Friendly using CSS

Handled main specifications like payments.

Developed Report Generators using Java IO for generating periodical
reports of Students.

Involved in implementation of DAO layer using JDBC API.

Implemented SMS integration with pcom.



Project #8

Title			Mbhav

Client		 	Reasoning

Duration	 	Mar-2009 to Aug 2009

Team size	2

Role		 Developer

Environment		 	J2EE, Struts, Servlet, JSP, WAP, SQL Server, Tomcat5.    

Description	mbhav is a unique mobile-based service devised for customers
to have anywhere, anytime access to product information & local price
comparisons before actually heading for an in store purchase. mbhav
comparison service offers greater utility with its location-dependent
capabilities.



Responsibilities	Started with design of Value Objects and Views.

Implemented search using Lucene, Advanced Product Cache mechanism to
make its search faster.

Implemented “Did you mean” search facility to make its search
appropriate.

Implemented area specific search.



Project #9

Title			Mapping Escort 

Client		 	Reasoning

Duration	 	Sep-2008 to Feb 2009

Team size	2

Role		Developer

Environment		 	Java, JSP, ExtJs, Servlet, Struts, Lucene and SQL Server.
   

Description	Mapping Escort is plays back end support (admin) role to
ebhav. Mapping operator maps external products (crawled products) with
our Databank products if the products are already available with
databank. These mapped products will come into picture of search module
in ebhav. Mapping operator can also add new products to databank with
product images using http Client protocols.



Responsibilities	Started with design of Value Objects and Views.

Implemented search using Lucene, Advanced Product Cache mechanism to
make its search faster.

Implemented “Did you mean” search facility to make its search
appropriate.

Implemented area specific search.



Project #10

Title			Ebhav

Client		 	Reasoning

Duration	 	Aug -2007 to Sep-2008

Team size	7

Role		Developer

Environment		 	Java, JSP, Flex, Servlet, Struts, JavaScript, JQuery,
CSS, Lucene, Log4J and SQL Server. 

Description	ebhav is a free web based local comparison-shopping search
engine. It focus more on helping end user to find his exact product
within his reach, it also give end user the complete product information
with the live price which the retailers near him are offering. It will
search products in near and best stores of an end user using his geo
information rather than showing unrelated stores to him. Search
filtering is provided based on category, brand, product, distance,
online or offline store type.

Responsibilities	Started with design of Value Objects and Views, Vendor
Registration and Store Creation.

Implemented search using Lucene, Advanced Product Cache mechanism to
make its search faster.

Implemented “Did you mean” search facility to make its search
appropriate.

Implemented URL Rewriting mechanism for Search Engine Optimization.

Implemented logging mechanism using Log4J to created log file separately
for each module.

Developed Index Creation Automation tool for creating product, brand,
category and attribute indexes automatically in given intervals using
Quartz Scheduler, for making its search faster.



			

Personal Information

Name	Ramesh Elkaturi

Father’s Name	Posham Elkaturi

Date of Birth	11th June 1980.

Sex	Male

Marital Status	Married

Address

	Flat-No :– 101,

Bommarillu Residency,

Opp: Tennis court, 

Adjacent: Godavari Homes,

Suchitra Circle, Hyderabad,

Telangana-500055.

Ph-No	9848818752 (Mobile)

Office	040 – 67442210 {Persistent}

E –mail	Ramesh.elkaturi  HYPERLINK "mailto:pavitra.mohanb@gmail.com"
@gmail.com 



