Springs: 4.5 year

Hibernate: 4.5 year

Webservices: 1.2 year

Team Size: 6 ppl

UML design:no

Design patter:  yes

DB: oracle

                           Sreedhar Marouthu  

                                                      Mobile: 
9949673736

                                                      Email:   
HYPERLINK "mailto:srmarouthu@gmail.com" srmarouthu@gmail.com  

Experience Summary

Having 9 ½ years of experience in System Analysis, Design, Development,
Integration, Deployment, Testing and Maintenance of Web based &
Enterprise applications. 9 ½ 

Involved in all stages of Software Development Life Cycle, starting from
requirements gathering, Architecture, Design, Development, Testing and
Implementation.

Working experience in Agile methodology.

Experience in working with diverse set of people like project managers,
product owners, QA and scrum master to resolve ambiguities and provide
maximum business value.

Hands on experience in developing applications using J2EE frameworks
like Struts.

Extensive experience in developing Multi-Tier Web applications using
Java,  EJB, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, Spring,  JNDI, XML, HTML, JavaScript,
Ajax.

Hands on experience in deploying J2EE applications in Jboss , Web logic,
Web Sphere and Tomcat App/Web Servers.

Developed Java applications using various IDE’s like Eclipse, JBuilder
and Net Beans.

Good Experience in implementing Java & J2EE Design Patterns 

Strong database development experience in writing SQL and PL\SQL
database scripts.

Experience in working with ORM technologies like Hibernate

Hands on experience in integrating the Enterprise applications using
REST Web Services

Effective communication with client and cross-functional teams to
achieve project Priorities and timelines.

Strong communication, quantitative and analytical skills and a
demonstrated ability to handle Team 

Technical Skills	

Java/J2EE Technologies	Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, JSTL, EJB, Web
Services (Rest),  JMS

XML Technologies                    	XML, XPATH, SAX, DOM

Frameworks	Struts, Hibernate, Spring , Apache Wicket

Mark-up & Scripting Languages 	HTML,  JavaScript , Ajax 

App Servers	Web logic App Server, Web Sphere App Server , Jboss and
Tomcat 

Tools/Software                          	Junit, Eclipse, JBuilder, Net
Beans, Ant, Maven, Log4j, Toad, JProbe, EasyMock, Crucible, Talend,
Jenkins

Repository & Bug Tracking	Microsoft VSS, CVS, Perforce, Subversion, Team
Tracker, Bugzilla, Defect Tracker, Version one, Quality Center and
Mingle

Databases	Oracle, MySQL

Operating System                     	Windows 



Educational Background

Masters in Computer Applications from Nagarjuna University. 

Bachelor of Computer Science from Nagarjuna University. 

Employment

Helios and Matheson (worked at Bank of America, BACI) from Oct 2013 to
Dec 2014.

Prokarma Softech Pvt Ltd. from June 2010 to Aug2013.

Value Labs, Hyderabad from June 2007 to Jan 2009.

Kenexa Technologies, Hyderabad from Oct 2004 to June 2007.

Future Access Soft Solutions, Hyderabad from Nov 2003 to Oct 2004.

Professional Experience 

Project 		: R3 (Research, Resolution and Reconcilement) (Oct 2013 –
Dec 2014)

Client 		: Bank of America

Role		: Tech Lead

Methodology	: Agile

Environment	: Java, Spring (Core, MVC, AOP, Transactions, Batch),
Hibernate, JBoss eap 6.0, Oracle 10g, Talend, Easy Mock

R3 is an application used to support a service center environment that
enables research and resolution across the posting boundaries. R3 will
be replacing 12 other applications involved in Day 2 process of
exception resolutions. Help in tracking of exceptions and requests for
Originators, Responders and Analysts.

Responsibilities

Participate in agile ceremonies like sprint planning /release planning
sessions, daily stand-ups and retrospectives. Provide inputs during
planning poker sessions.

Understanding the requirements as well as the technical aspects of the
project. Interfaced with Business Analyst, Technical Lead, on site
coordinator and Clients.

Contribute to the velocity of the team by picking up stories / tech task
each sprint.

Performed analysis, design, coding and implementation, team coordination

Code reviews using Crucible. Managing code quality by reviewing unit
code coverage and integration test coverage on SONAR.

Work with Devops team to maintain Jenkins jobs, upgrading SONAR rule
sets and health monitoring of application across regions.

Work with UX lead to ensure presentation layer templates provided are
feasible to implement.

Identification and remediation of technical debt periodically. Creating
tech tasks and including them in sprints and providing signoff.

Lead showcase demos to internal tech team and business/product owners at
the end of every sprint.

Ensure project wiki is updated by team.

Work with production support team to enhance the application with
features that would improve operational efficiency of the application
and increase support team's productivity.

Reviewing and updating standards guidelines for coding, unit testing,
integration testing and socializing it with team. Updating tutorial
project accordingly.

Project		: EDCS (Electronic Data Collection System ) (Jun 2010 –
Aug2013)

Clients		: UPRR(Union Pacific Road Rail)

Role		: Sr. Software Engineer

Methodology	: Agile (Iteration model)

Environment     : Weblogic 10.3, Oracle 10g, Java, Apache Wicket,
Spring, Hibernate, Tibco , JMS, XML, XSD

UPRR is one of America's leading transportation companies, is North
America's premier railroad franchise, covering 23 states across the
western two-thirds of the United States. EDCS is aimed to serve the day
to day time records of the employees in mechanical department. An
existing 18 year old C/Mainframe based application migration to J2EE web
based application is all about EDCS. To brief about EDCS covers timecard
creation/deletion, adding timecard transactions (which involves Class of
time, Pay Position Code, Work are and work code) ,  Shift continuation
and transfer to another foreman, approving/unapproving timecards, 
Monthly Calendar view of work hours of the employee, checking Hours Of
Service Violation, managing holiday process, Scheduling vacations of
mechanical department, having multiple user roles to login /manage/audit
the records. 

Responsibilities

Setting up the project at offshore.

Understanding the requirements as well as the technical aspects of the
project. Interfaced with Business Analyst, Technical Lead, on site
coordinator and Clients.

Performed analysis, design, coding and implementation, team
coordination, code review, testing, and installation.

Developed  pages using Apache Wicket, Html, CSS, and Java Script  and 
Ajax 

Used Eclipse as IDE.

Used Log4j Framework for creating different logging reports like
Business, Service and Error Reports used by the Support teams.

Used Subversion for version controlling

Worked with customers to debug and fix issues reported by them

Identifying and resolving performance related issues.

Sending daily status updates.

Mentor for junior members.

Used Version One and Quality Center for defect tracking process

Project		: Snapfish (Jun 2007 – Jan 2009)

Clients		: Wal-Mart, Walgreens, Costco.

Role		: Module Lead

Environment	: Tomcat 4.1, Oracle 9i, Java, JSP, Struts, HP-Snapfish MVC
framework, HP-Snapfish Infoscopic framework, Top link, XML, XSD, JDOM,
Toad

Snapfish is a web-based photo sharing and print service. Snapfish is a
leading online photo service with more than 60 million members and one
billion unique photos stored online. Snapfish members can share, print
and store their most important photo memories at the lowest prices -
online or off. Snapfish offers professionally-developed digital camera
prints as low as 10¢, film developing for just $2.99 per roll, free
online photo sharing, unlimited online photo storage, free editing tools
and software, wireless imaging services, and more than 80 personalized
photo products, ranging from canvas prints, calendars, mugs and mouse
pads, memory books, note cards, greeting cards, dog leashes and teddy
bears. 

Responsibilities

Performed analysis, design, coding and implementation, team
coordination, code review, testing, and installation.

Developed Application based on HP-Snapfish MVC framework using MVC
design patterns

Developed JSP pages using Html, CSS, and Java Script  and  Ajax 

Writing Front end validations using JavaScript.

Developed internal application to perform searching users, auto login
into users account, order re-submits, issuing refunds and other
operations by using Struts framework.

Created components using HP-Snapfish Infoscopic framework.

Involved in converting products pricing from static to dynamic module.

Used Eclipse as IDE for developing J2EE components.

Provided External API using XML, XSD, JDOM for clients standalone
applications

Used Log4j Framework for creating different logging reports like
Busssiness, Service and Error Reports used by the Support teams.

Used Perforce for version controlling

Worked with various customers to debug and fix issues reported by them

Identifying and resolving performance related issues.

Sending daily and weekly status updates.

Mentor for junior members.

Involving in teleconferences with Back end (BE) engineers in US for BE
APIs.

Used Team Tracker for defect tracking process

Project		: Kenexa Recruiter (Oct 2004 – Jun 2007)

Role		: Senior Software Engineer

Environment: Tomcat 4.1, Web sphere 6.0, Oracle 9i, Java, JSP, Hibernate
3.0, XML, XSLT, Kenexa MVC Framework, Axis, Web Services, Toad

Kenexa Recruiter is a Leading Applicant Tracking System in the HCM
Domain. Kenexa Recruiter automates the hiring process and dramatically
reduces overall hiring costs and streamline and automates the entire
recruiting process. This KRE product is used by more than 100 clients
like Wachovia Bank, Alltel, Lithia motors, Guaranty bank, Sodexho and
BB&T etc. And KR hourly product is specifically developed for Retail
stores and this product is used by some of the clients like Petco,
Kmart, Hobbylobby, Hilton Hotels, and Buckle etc. These products
seamlessly integrates with Kenexa's proven testing and assessment
technologies to consistently identify the most talented candidates and
these systems also integrated with different Job boards like Monster,
AJB, Hot jobs.

Responsibilities

Performed requirement analysis, design, coding and implementation,
testing, and installation.

Designed and developed Application based on Kenexa MVC framework using
MVC design patterns

Customized the product according to the change requests sent by the
client

Involved in Production support for the clients after going live.

Handled the upgrading clients from older versions to the newer versions.
 

Involved in Data migration from Asp to JSP version.

Customizations for the Clients after the UAT process.

Monitored software defects and reported against technical architecture,
and ensured timely resolution.

Involved in the timeline calls with the clients.  

Estimations and Analysis of the Customizations. 

Used XSLT to transform the XML’s posted by ITAX

Developed Reusable classes using Reflection API

Used Defect Tracker for defect tracking process

Used JBuilder as IDE for developing J2EE components

Responsible for developing POJO classes and XML, hbm and hibernate
configuration files in persistence layer

Developed  database scripts using SQL & PL/SQL

Developed the Client programs to process the WSDL files and to  Invoke
the services provided by the Equest, ITAX [First Advantage]  using SOAP
protocol

Integrated the product with third party vendors like Sterling.

Used VSS for version controlling

Used Microsoft Project for project planning and tracking.

Resolved  the performance related  issues In the Dash Board of the
product

Analyzing Change requests and delegating the work to offshore team.

Trained offshore team on Architecture & functionality of the product.

Project		:  e-Khazana    (Nov 2003 – Oct 2004)

Client		:  Pay & Accounts Office and AP State Treasury Offices 

Role		:  Software Engineer

Environment: JavaScript, Java, Servlets, JSP, EJB, Web Logic Server and
Oracle under Windows.

The application is an intranet application designed for implementation
of the day-to-day operational needs of this department.  This department
is responsible for payments of cheques, maintaining bills for the all
the departments located in twin cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad. 
The departments submit the bills to this department for release of
payments. This project mainly has seven modules, which carries out the
transaction activities from receiving the bill to delivery of cheque.

Front office: Cycle starts from generating Tran’s id that issued to
DDO (Drawing and disbursing Officer) on submitting the bill.

Flyleaf: Contains all the employees pay particulars to crosscheck with
the paybill (salary bill) submitted by DDO and  Master data i.e.,  all
the information required for auditing including the annual budget, audit
rules, Head of Account.

Auditing: The bill that submitted in the counter (front office) is
scrutinized by the auditor. This module uses services of flyleaf module.
Depending on the type of the bills and form number budget is checked

Cheque Writing: Bills passed by the auditor are verified and printed.

Cheque Delivery: Life cycle ends after cheque delivery to DDO.

Main Account: This module uses data of all branches and generates
various reports which are then sent to Audit General for post audit,
Directorate of Treasuries and Accounts and Finance Department of AP.

Administration: This is utility for the administrator to maintain users
and access permission.

Responsibilities

Performed requirement analysis, design, coding, implementation and
installation.

Designed and developed using MVC model.

Developed the Business components using EJB Session Beans

Developed JSP pages using Html, CSS, and Java Script

Developed  database scripts using SQL & PL/SQL

Used Bugzilla for defect tracking process.

Used CVS for version controlling.

Used Net Beans as IDE for developing J2EE components

