 

M Suman    		  			          		

H.No 12-10-77/5A,

Pisolkar Compound, 

Sitaphalmandi,				                 	            Email:
suman.mgpl@gmail.com

Secunderabad.	500061				      	            Contact: 9959846688	

------------------------------------------------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------

Professional Summary:

Highly motivated and skilled software professional with around 5 years
of Development experience in the area of Java and Web Technologies. And
1 year Teaching Experience 

Good knowledge and understanding of SDLC methodologies and Design
patterns.

Excellent working knowledge in JAVA, SERVLETS,  Spring and Hibernate.

Good Knowledge on AngularJs.

Ability to grasp new concepts quickly and implement them in to
productive way, Possesses strong Commitment, Dedication and excellent
Analytical, Programming and efficient Problem Solving skills.

Self-motivated and fast learner with strong interpersonal and
communication skills.

Work Experience

Currently working as a Senior Software Engineer in Valuelabs LLP from
July 2014.

Worked  as a Senior Software Engineer in MagnaQuest Technologies Ltd
from Nov 2010 to July 2014.

Worked  as a Lecturer in Vidya Bharathi Institute Technologies ,JNTUH 
from  April 2007 to July 2008.

Academic Profile:

M.Tech from University college of Engineering Osmania University
(2008-10).

B.Tech from Vidya Bharathi Institute of Technology (2002-06).

Technical Profile:

Programming Language             	C, Core Java, SQL

Web Tools                     	HTML, Javascript, ZK framework(RIA),
AngularJS

Frameworks 	Spring core, Hibernate 

Databases  	MySql.

Operating System	Linux, Windows, Ubuntu.

Web Servers	 Tomcat 6.X

Web services	REST

Tools	Eclipse, RapidSVN Client, STS, HaProxy,ICinga



Work Experience:

Project 1: 

Title	UTMS

Duration	Oct 2014 -  tilldate

Organization	Valuelabs

Role	Developer

Environment & Tech	Java,  Spring,Spring Data JPA, Linux,
AngularJS,HTML,CSS

Database	Mysql

Others	Liquibase (Source control Database), ICINGA, HAProxy, Nginx



UTMS (Unified Testing Management System) is a integrated with
domain-specific tools & technologies and frameworks, enables testers,
developers and business users to collaborate and contribute to providing
comprehensive testing services. UTMS can be delivered via cloud,
integrated with existing client systems and on premises systems.
Customers can achieve faster time-to-market of their
products/applications and solutions, enhanced ROI and superior end-user
experience while reducing total cost of testing.

Responsibilities:

Understanding the requirements and create UI prototype.

Developing the requirements.

Involved in developing the entire application.

Support in testing phase and implementation phase.

Project 2:

Title	Optculture

Duration	Nov 2010 – Aug 2012 and  Nov 2012 – July 2014

Organization	MagnaQuest Technologies

Role	Developer

Team size	11

Environment & Tech	Spring, Hibernate, ZK, Tomcat

Database Environment	MySQL

Tools	Eclipse, SVN 



Description:

Optculture is a digital marketing product which helps enterprises in
marketing their products, services, or offerings through email. The
interfaces on Optculture are designed to make email marketing processes
easy-to-use and intuitive. The features are comprehensive and encompass
all needs of the digital marketer. The simple structure enables you to
create contact lists, design templates, send and schedule emails, and
statistics of your emails. 

 

User can design effective and professional emails with Optculture.
Optculture ensures client's mails to be received well by customers, so
it offers you the best of templates and even help you in creating your
own custom designed templates.

 

And most importantly, Optculture has inbuilt processes to ensure email
delivery – which ensures client's mails to land in the recipient's
Inbox. It provides a spam checker that scores your email based on the
spam factors. Plus your emails will follow protocols, feedback loops and
other such requirements demanded by major ISPs across the globe.
Optculture has an anti-spam policy and will require all clients to
follow permission based methods to collect email lists.  Any attempt to
abuse the Optculture system will lead to termination of services. 

Responsibilities:

Understood the requirements and created UI prototype.

Developed the core functionalities of the project.

Involved in developing the entire application.

Peer code reviews of the team members.

Project documentation like preparing the API’s for the application.

Configuring and tuning the SMTP servers.

Regular checkups on Optculture SMTP domains.

Support in testing phase and implementation phase.

Project 3: 

Title	SelfCare

Duration	Aug 2012 -  Nov 2012

Organization	Magnaquest

Role	Developer

Team size	3

Environment	Java,  Spring, Hibernate,  Linux (Ubuntu and Centos)

Database Environment	MySQL

Client	Media Corp



Description:

Client(MediaCorp) is providing Digital TV through internet using Set Top
Box. The services include 7 television channels and 14  radio channels .
The customers will opt for services online using Selfcare. Selfcare is a
webportal using which customers could view Billing overview,
personalized offers and promotions, track and trace orders. Customers
could also perform change of channel package, pay bills, optin and
optout. Selfcare module is integrated with the back end CRM system, MQ
subscribe, using REST web service.

Responsibilities:

Understanding the requirements and create UI prototype.

Developing the requirements.

Personal Information:

Father's Name				:	 	M.Veeresham	

Date of Birth				: 		04, Feb, 1985

Marital Status	          			: 		Married

Nationality				: 		Indian

Languages Known 			: 		Telugu, Hindi and English

Permanent Address			: 		H.No 1-118

                          					Raghunathpally, Warangal,

			   				A.P, India, PIN 506244.

			  				PH: +91-9959846688.

(Suman Mogullapalli)

