Spring: 2 year & current

 Hibernate: 2 year & Current

web services: worked but not much

Application: websphere/web logic

DB: oracle/my sql

Kandi. Bantraj

Email: bantraj@gmail.com                                       Mob:
+919703789773

To extend my challenging career with an industry offering scope to
enhance my analytical and development skills.

Diligent and resourceful professional with 2.6 years of experience in
Information Technology.

Extensive experience in the performance, development and maintenance of
enterprise wide software products and projects.

Experience and strong technical skills with Core Java, Hibernate, JPA,
JSP, EXT JS 3/4,  DWR,Oracle Basics,Fusion Charts, Html, JavaScript,
JBoss 4/5, Ant,Tortoise SVN, Websphere, WebLogic .

Domain knowledge includes BSFI: Investment banking – Mutual Funds,
Portfolio Analytic, Customer Relationship Management, RM Workstation,
and Accounting.

Exposure to all stages of Software Development Life Cycle.

Experience in Product Methodology.

Possess good analytical and problem solving skills.

Work Experience

Worked as a Software developer in Polaris Financial Technology Ltd,
Hyderabad, INDIA from July 2011 to May 2014.

Working as Analyst in Verizon Data Service India Pvt Ltd from May 2014
to Till Date

 I worked on multiple projects in Banking Domain and Telephone Domain
that improved my skills and confidence in various technologies like with
Core Java, Hibernate, JPA, JSP, EXTJS, DWR, Oracle Basics, Fusion
Charts, High Charts, Html, and JavaScript.

I played my role in performance, implementation of multiple-projects.

Had good interaction with multi-site people in accomplishing the
projects.

key traits

Good at analysing and developing the project as per requirements

Quick and keen learner

Confident and good at interacting with multi-site people.

Good communication skills

Technical Skill Set

  

Operating Systems	UNIX, AIX, Windows 9x/ XP/ 2000,Windows 7

Languages	Java(Core JAVA)

Framework	Hibernate JPA, DWR 

Web Technology	JSP, Servlets, HTML, CSS, Java Script, EXT JS 3.x/4.x,
Fusion Charts.

Servers	Web Sphere, Web Logic, JBOSS 4.x/5.x,Apache,Tortoise SVN

Database	Oracle 10g/11g

Tools	 PL/SQL Developer, Ant Tool ,Oracle SQL Developer

IDE	Eclipse 3.5,Hudson



Education

B.Tech in Chemical Engineering from NIT (National Institute of
Technology), Rourkela, Orissa during 2007-2011.

Major Projects Handled 

PROJECT #1

Project		: 	Intellect Wealth Product Development				             

Duration 	: 	Jul 2011 – Jan 2012 

Environment	:  	Java, J2EE, JPA, Ext JS, Fusion Charts, HTML, CSS, XML,

		JSON, DWR, Oracle, JBOSS.

Tools		:  	PL/SQL Developer, Eclipse, SQL Developer.

Project Description:

Intellect FABX:

The objective of the product is to design and to implement the Module of
FABX in widget-workspace and work-area model. User can create his
workspace by his/ her own. 

	 FABX was created to provide services to the RM's with aggregated
information about their customer's portfolio and revenue with various
parameters and also hierarchical view of his/her team.

	  Product focus was to implement to showcase the aggregated information
about the customers portfolio and revenue. The products offered were
Complete Life Cycle of Portfolio, Revenue, Targets, Team Hierarchy,
Alerts and Reports. It also provides latest market information. 

Intellect CRM:

 Customer Relationship Management (CRM) consists of 3 stages: Lead
Capture, Prospect Creation and finally Customer (Relationship) Creation.
An RM is required to actively prospect new potential clients and convert
them into customers of the Bank. It provides Scheduler and Call Reports
which are the tools used by RM and other users for their day-to-day
work, for their scheduling and reporting of meetings. It also provides
facilities for entering Service Requests from customers and these are
then forwarded to the appropriate departments for resolution.

Role: Developer

Responsibilities: 

Involved in Functional Specifications, Construction.

Involved in Design and Development of Portfolio, Past Simulation and
Monte Carlo Simulation Framework.

Development of prototype, Preparation/review the Unit Test Cases.

Design and development of widget and workspace framework.

Design and development of widgets.

Performance Tuning.

PROJECT #3

Project		: 	Citi Trust Platform TRAX (Trust Accounting Exchange)

Client 		:  	Citi, US							             

Duration 	: 	Sep 2012– Jan 2012

Environment	:  	Java, J2EE, JPA, Ext JS, DWR, Oracle.

Tools		:  	PL/SQL Developer, TOAD, Eclipse, SQL Developer.

Project Description:	

 Wealth Management System is a product that provides Accounting Module
(AM), Asset Ledger (AL) and General Ledger (GL) modules as a part of
GCTP implementation to provide a solution for the Citi Trust Platform.

	AM module will facilitate generating accounting entries for financial
transactions performed in any Product Processors-PP and handing off
these entries on a transaction or a consolidated basis to the General
Ledger. This module will facilitate the definition of Criteria (set of
transaction attributes) with different Posting Rules for which an
accounting entry needs to be generated. An accounting entry will then be
defined for defined Criteria. The accounting entry corresponding to
Criteria will be generated during transaction processing when the values
passed by PP would match a Criteria definition. The accounting entry
generated will be handed off as individual or consolidated entries to
General Ledger either online or as a batch.

A set of queries will also be configured for the user to view the
accounting entries and exceptions that have occurred during generation
or hand-off.

Role: Developer

Responsibilities: 

Involved in construction 

Involved in development Workspace Framework in Asset Ledger Module.

Involved in Issues Fixing.

Personal Particulars

Name			: 	Kandi Bantraj

Father’s Name		:	K Nageshwar Rao

Date of Birth	      	: 	24th August 1989

Languages Known	:	English, Telugu, Hindi, and Kannada

Mobile No		:	+919703789773

Address		               :	Plot No: 259, Laxmi Narsimha Nilayam, Back
Side of Q City Building,

				Secreteriat Colony, Gachibowli, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh -500032

  						                    (Kandi Bantraj)

