From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience)
the following technologies?  

Hibernate                           
                 -  2
year                                  
             

Spring                  
                                 - 3.5
year& current

Web
Services                                
       -  REST – 3 year& current

Core
Java                                  
            -  6 years                

Design
Patterns                                
   -  2 years            

UML
design                                 
         -   2Years

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)                   -   
Maven

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools
etc.]

Tomcat/eclipse/sonar/jboss.

Lil bit exposure on reflection,good in DB

Mohammed Khaja

  HYPERLINK "mailto:mohammedkhaja14@gmail.com" 
mohammedkhaja14@gmail.com 

+91- 9701668067

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY

         

Over 6.3 years of experience in Design, Development and Architecting
activities including Requirement Analysis, Implementation, Packaging and
Deployment, developing Web based enterprise applications and expertise
in implementing Object Oriented Programming (OOPS) with Java, J2EE.

Experienced in design and development of various commercial applications
using Client/Server architecture.

Working experience in development of custom portlets, hooks, themes,
customizing out of box portlets, integrating third party tools with
Liferay 6.0.x and 6.1.x (CE & EE).

Good expertise in developing web based applications using JSF and Spring
MVC web frameworks.

Good expertise in working with various open source software like Spring,
Hibernate, Log4j, JUnit, Ant and Maven in development. 

Working experience with Apache Tomcat web server, Weblogic, JBoss,
Websphere application server and Web sphere Portal servers.

Excellent experience in the development of Portlets using JSR168 and
JSR286 specifications and also excellent experience in implementing
Inter Portlet Communication (IPC) between different portlets.

Experience in java application testing using JUNIT framework, Mockito,
JMock and PowerMock for unit testing.

Extensive experience in major build management systems and version
systems such as IBM Clearcase and SVN.

Proficient in implementing various Java/J2EE design patterns including
Singleton, Factory, MVC, Front Controller, DAO etc.

Experience in configuring and deploying java web applications (WAR and
EAR) on Web logic, JBoss 5.x and Tomcat 5.x/6.x application servers.

Hands on experience using ANT, MAVEN build tool.

Worked in Waterfall model and Agile Methodologies (like Scrum and
Scrumban) efficiently.

TECHNICAL SKILLS

Programming Languages		:    Java 1.4/1.5/1.6

J2EE Technologies		:    JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Restful Webservices.

Application servers			:    Jboss 5.x, Weblogic 10.x, WebSphere 6.x

Web Servers		:    Tomcat7.x

Frameworks                   	 	:    JSF 1.1, Spring, Hibernate, Liferay
Portal framework

Markup languages		:    HTML, XML

Databases		:    Oracle 9i/10g and MySQL 5.0

Tools		:    PL/SQL Developer

Build and CI Tools 		:   Jenkins (for build atomization tool), Sonar (To
check Code Rules compliance)

Management Tool		:    SVN, Clearcase

IDE					:    RAD7.x, Eclipse

Portal Technologies		:    IBM WebSphere Portal 6.x, Liferay Portal
6.0.x, 6.1.20

 

EDUCATION

Master of Computer Applications (M.C.A) from Kakatiya University,
Warangal, India.[2008]

Bachelor of Science B.Sc (M.P.CS) from Kakatiya University, Warangal,
India.[2005]

Awards:

Received best employee of the quarter for two times.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 

ProKarma, Hyderabad, India		                                            
                                 		Feb 2014 – Till date

Waybill History Inquiry / Historical Car Trace.

Senior Developer

 

Project Description:

The Union Pacific Railroad Waybill History Inquiry allows customers (who
are shipper or consignee ) to view details of the last one year waybills
related to a piece of equipment, based on the equipment's ID number. 

This includes showing movement information of waybills. Movement events
will be generated on every station from where equipment passes. Waybill
details include billing information, special conditions, third parties
to the bill, and data on multiple car shipments, among other items.

Responsibilities

Designed and implemented Restful Service for getting Movement event
details of waybills.

Responsible for planning the work with onshore business analyst.

Successfully implemented spring restful service.

Designed and implemented Rest client with Apache’s http client.

Responsible for writing unit tests using Junit, Mockito and PowerMock.

Responsible for code reviews and code deliveries to production.

Environment:

Windows, Java 1.6, Maven 2.x,  Oracle 10g, Jboss 5.x, spring , JSF 1.1,
JSP, Junit frameworks , JavaScript, jQuery, Eclipse and Sub Version.

ProKarma, Hyderabad, India                  	                           
                                		October 2011 – Feb 2014

MyUPRR Customer Portal

Senior Developer

 

Project Description:

MyUPRR Customer Portal is a business critical application to all
internal and external customers.

First, MyUPRR is the main portal for all external customers.  It
provides a starting point for all customers to branch off to other
applications.  The information displayed is tailored to meet the
customers need and thus, is based on business group and user role
information.

Second, MyUPRR provides interface to notifications. This will provide
owner the ability to target specific customer segments for marketing
campaigns.

Customers include employees of all levels, with portal page views
designed based on an employee’s job functionality. External customers
consist of any of Union Pacific's varied industry customers, with their
pages based on industry and/or geographic location.

Responsibilities

Designed/Implemented Liferay plug-ins such as portlets, themes, hooks
and layouts.

Responsible for planning the work with onshore business analyst.

Successfully implemented spring based hooks and portlets.

Successfully integrated different projects with web portal.

Responsible for code reviews and code deliveries to production.

Responsible for writing unit tests.

Environment

Windows, Java 1.6, Maven 2.x,  Oracle 10g, Liferay Portal 6.0.5 EE,
Jboss 5.x, spring core, spring aop , spring jdbc, JSP, Velocity
template, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, AJAX, jQuery1.6, Eclipse, Version One.

Infinite Computer Solutions, Bangalore, India                           
                                                		Dec 2009 – Oct 2011

NH-MMIS

Software Engineer

NHMMIS (New Hampshire Medicaid Management Information System) Medicaid
is a health insurance program financed and run jointly by the federal
and state governments for low-income people of all ages who do not have
the money or insurance to pay for health care. The goal of the program
is to provide medical and other health care services to eligible
individuals so that they are able to remain as self-sufficient as
possible. Medicaid is a state administered program. Each state sets its
own guidelines, subject to federal rules and guidelines. Certain
services must be covered by the states in order to receive federal
funds. Other services are optional and are elected by states.

Responsibilities

Involved in requirement analysis.

Implemented test cases for different modules.

Implemented custom portlets using JSR 168.

Extensively used interportlet communication (IPC) between various custom
portlets.

Involved in testing the application components using JUnit framework.

Developed the action components as request handlers and configured using
JSF.

Environment

Java 1.5, Java/J2EE, JSF, Hibernate, Oracle, RAD 7.5.4, WebSphere
Application Server, WebSphere Portal Server 6.0

DGB Soft, Hyderabad, India                                              
                             		July 2008 – Nov 2009

Web tools - MLM

Junior Software Engineer

The product is for direct sales of products. The users involved in Multi
Level Marketing (MLM) business. Here customers are MLM members ,they get
benefit from commission based on the their legs purchase the products
.So customer wants to keep track of information every time who is
active/inactive, how much sales volume for me/for my legs in this
week/month. MLM is having communication service and  E-cards sending
services.

The project have Admin module, Login module, Customer module, Reporting
module and Content management module.

Content Management System (CMS) is a sub module of Admin module. It is
developed to upload the required content into system / server. The
content includes project related Help files, terms and condition
documents, project specific images, E-cards and most importantly Excel
to flat file conversion services.

Those flat files will be using for DB uploads. CMS is useful for manage
project content efficiently.

Admin module has the services to create and update the users online.
Able to update project content online. Updating the user privileges
online. 

Responsibilities

Involved in requirement analysis.

Involved in writing code for enhancements and defects.

Involved in analyzing & dealing with cases which are coming in
Production Environment.

Written Junit test cases.

Involved in production deployment process.

Environment

Java 1.4, HTML, JavaScript, JSP, JSF, Hibernate, Oracle, Tomcat and
Eclipse.

