Arun Prakash Sagar
+91-9553257189

arun.prakash.sagar@gmail.com

Professional Experience:
ORACLE, INDIA

Senior Software Engineer (July’ 2014 – Present)
 Ethelontiis: A volunteering application to create and organize a cause, project and activities to help the need. In
addition to the regular activities, volunteers can set up goals in terms of volunteering hours and leading projects.
Volunteer contribution to the total contribution presented in the form of Bar and Pie charts.
 I have worked on initial configuration and framework setup with mock implementation. Most of the key features
such as applying ADF Jazn security, loading images using JSP & Servlets and micro site similar to Facebook are
implemented by me.
 HcmConnectV2: This tool provides an end-to-end integration solution that replaces the existing Fusion and
Taleo middleware with a cloud-hosted integrated solution, which supports planning, scheduling and
monitoring, all from an easy to use browser-based user interface.
 The goal of the HCM Connect project is to provide a set of tools to assist Fusion HCM and Taleo customers in
migrating data between those applications and their legacy HCM and CRM applications. HCM ConnectV1 and
HCM Connect V2 are two integration solutions and a set of web services available to customers and integrators to
build their own integration solutions to Fusion HCM and Taleo.
 Designed a section of UI for creating environments, flows and scheduling flows to migrate data between
applications.
Applications Engineer (June’ 2011 – July’ 2014)
 HcmConnectV1: This was my first front end project by using basic version of JDeveloper. I have designed
complete UI pages using JSP, JSF, Servlets and Taskflows. It uses MVC architecture to perform basic operations
including creating configurations, scheduling configurations and displaying results with search functionalities.
 This solution utilizes existing Fusion middleware to perform migration of business objects into Fusion HCM. It is
hosted in the cloud and performs the more mundane steps of typical Fusion HCM in-bound integration process by
performing the file transfer, loading the file into UCM, and triggering the FBL process.
 Human Workforce Reputation: Worked on building controls using GRC patterns to analyze user participation in
social media such as Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn. These controls analyze and prepare the scores on the
information (such as posts, likes, shares, tags and etc) from social media.
 GRC Patterns: Implemented two patterns with the help of already existing patterns framework in GRC. Patterns
provide a mechanism to find out fraud/risk in an organization by statistical approach.
Ex: Mean, Normalization, Deviation, etc...
 GRC (Governance, Risk and Compliance) Work lists: Worked on implementation of work list functionality in
GRC project. Main idea behind this functionality is to generate email notifications to a particular/group of users
based on the role or type of task. Email contains pending task(s) if it is newly created or FYI –Notification in case
if it is sent back to the creator.

Education:
 MTech in Information Technology, IIT Kharagpur (2009 - 2011)
 Bachelor of Engineering in CSE, Osmania University, Hyderabad (2005 - 2009)

(CGPA) 8.5/10
70.02%

Academic Projects:


Project title: MAcoSim: A Matlab based Underwater Acoustic Sensor Network Simulator.
Abstract: A MATLAB based simulator for testing the performance of protocols designed for Underwater Sensor
Networks. Interdependency among modules is resolved to a great extent and provides GUI for designing
topologies.

Technical Skills:
 Technologies worked on:
 Areas of Interest:
 Build Tools:
 Application Servers:

Java, ADF, JSP, spring, JavaScript, CSS, and PL/SQL.
Algorithms and Data Structures.
Apache Maven, SVN, Git, Gerit.
Apache Tomcat, Web logic.

Accolades:
 IEEE/ACM International Conference (GreenCom’10) has selected my paper on “Detection of Identity based
attacks in wireless sensor networks using signal prints” and published it in Sep’ 2010 summit.
 Received a Gold Medal in inter college ‘Power Lifting Championship – 2011, IIT KGP’.
 Competed for the title ‘Best Physique – 2011, IIT KGP’ and bagged it.

