Bharat Pasupula	

Email: bharath.pasupula@gmail.com                               		      
              Phone: +91-9052964626

												 

Professional Summary:

An enthusiastic,ever learning IT guy with 3+ years of experience of
working in Software Management with  SVN and ADE as version control
tool, PYTHON ,Django,REST,SOAP webservices ,Shell Scripting and batch
scripting as automation aids.

Currently working with Oracle India Pvt Ltd Hyderabad as Applications
Engineer with Fusion Financial technology team.

Experience working on C++ technology with Python scripting. 

Experience of using Java/J2EE technologies with usage of Struts2,ADF.

Experience of deployment automation and issue triaging on Weblogic 11g.

Working as a single point of contact for shifting the project lifecycle
paradigm adhering to agile development methodology.

Experience in working with client tech teams and cross functional teams.

Experience in working for Development Environment Support.

Experience of working in onshore-offshore model, handling critical
responsibilities.

Technical Skills

Software	OS: windows XP, linux

SCM: SVN , ADE

App Server: Weblogic 11g

Technologies/Languages	Python Scripting

Shell Scripting, 

C++

Java , J2EE, 

Oracle DB , SQL ,PL/SQL

Tools	Jdeveloper,Eclipse IDE, Putty, SQLDeveloper, WinSCP

Domain Experience	Financials , Higher Education , Retail and
Transportation .

Management Experience	Release Management includes managing Quality
Assurance team on one hand and Development team on the other, for smooth
development and high quality delivery.

Qualifications

Degree and Date	Institute	Specialization	Percentage

B.Tech(passed in 2012)	J N T U KAKINADA	Computer Science and Engineering
74.25%

12th(passed in 2007)	PRATHIBHA JR COLLEGE HYDERABAD
Mathematics,Physics,Chemistry	89.60%

10th(passed in 2005)	MONTESSORI HIGH SCHOOL KURNOOL	Maths and Science
91.33%



Project Experience Summary

1

 

Work Area	ORACLE Fusion Applications

Domain	Fusion Higher Education / Payables

Project 	Campus Community module / Invoice approval

Project Duration	Apr 2014 – till date

Project Description	Fusion applications Financials is the major domain
in Fusion apps. Currently working on ADF part of Financial Payables –
Invoice Approval process workflow. Invoice approval includes J2EE and
ADF development . 

Team Size	5

Responsibilities	Developed the R12 coding part of Higher Education
product using ADF framework and Java.

Participated in the team meetings to discuss on the design part and made
my comments.

Was involved in the design of some modules respective to me.

Written Technical Design Document based on the development.

Helped in reiterating the Functional Design Document.

Helped freshers in learning framework and also solved many issues in
their work.

Fixed n number of bugs in R7 R8 R9 R10 R11 of Invoice approval in
Financial.

Also worked on development of tools which were useful internally across
the team.

Environment	Weblogic 11g , Oracle 11g ,ADF



2.

Clients	FedEx

Project Name	GATEKEEPER PHASE II

Project Description	Gatekeeper Phase II Web-based application it is
fully modified and enhanced version

Of already existing inventory system named Gatekeeper. The application
is used for maintaining the inventory of physical assets in use at FedEx
Express locations and international locations and also it will support
800 concurrent user requests at any point of time. Performance and
availability is the key concern of this version and at any point of time
any transaction should not take more than 4 seconds.

Project Duration	Sep-2012 to Mar-2014

Team size	11

Responsibilities	Involved in various phases of Software Development Life
Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, validating
SRS, DDS, Design, Analysis and Code development, bug fixing, testing and
24/7 production support. 

Migrated the entire Gatekeeper application from Struts 1 to Struts2.

Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts 2
Framework including JSP, Servlets, Action classes.

Proficiently created/modified new stored procedure, indexes, sequences,
tables for application. 

Created interactive reports in PDF/EXCEL format for all types of
reports.

Added functionality to send email with PDF as an attachment. 

Configured the web logic server in clustered environment in DEV, TEST
and PLA level and deployed the application.

Created shell script in server side which is used to invoke various
application related batch job.

Created a Batch job which will interact with LDAP in order to get up to
date FedEx employee data.

Implemented static service module which is an application level caching
mechanism for better performance.

Implemented a client from WSDL to interact and get employee Training
data from 3rd party system called CTMS.

Implemented Java/J2EE Design patterns like singleton, Data Transfer
Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator and Business Delegate. 

Worked with QA team for testing and resolved n numbers of defects. 

Build a team with juniors members, shared application and technical
knowledge and assigned worked to them in order to achieve strict
deadlines.

Environment
JAVA/J2EE,Struts2,Hibernate,EJB,JMS,POI,ITEXT,JSP,Servlet,AJAX,Javascrip
t,Html,CSS,Weblogic,oracle 10g

 

Key Competencies & Skills 

	

Skill	Proficiency (E0 to E4)

Shell Script	E3

Python	E3

C++	E3

Unix/Linux	E3

Java	E4

J2EE	E4



Achievements ( Professional )

Received MARVEL-BEST NEW JOINEE AWARD for the year 2012-13 from WIPRO
TECHNOLOGIES for excellent services provided.

Passport Details

Name as on passport	Passport Number	Date of Issue	Expiry Date	Place of
Issue

Sai Bharat Chandra Pasupula	K6406965 

	04/06/12	03/06/22	HYDERABAD 





TECHPOINT PROFILE

