							SRINIVASA REDDY BAREDDY

							Email id : srinibareddy@gmail.com

							Contact No : 9535762532

Professional Summary:

Having 3+ Years of IT experience as a Software Engineer in developing
various web applications using JAVA/J2EE Technologies.

Strong programming knowledge in JAVA, JDBC, Servlets, JSP.

Good implementation knowledge in Struts, Spring, Hibernate Framework.

Good implementation Knowledge on Web Services  (Soap over Http, Rpc
services)

Good  knowledge on EJB, JMS.

Good implementation  Knowledge on DOJO , Java Script and HTML .

Good Knowledge on and JQuery .

Good knowledge in Oracle<Sql>.

Experience in J2EE with IDE like MyEclipse, RSA.

Good working experience to develop Applications using web Servers like
Weblogic and Web Sphere Application server.  

Academic Profile:

Master of Computer Applications from JNTU  in 2010.

Experience Profile:

Working as Software Engineer in IBM India, Bangalore from Jun 2011 to
till date.

Technical Profile:

Operating Systems	:	Windows

Programming Languages	:	J2SE

Web Based Technology	:	J2EE(Servlets, Jsp, Jdbc)

Framework	:	Struts , Spring, EJB

ORM Technology	:	Hibernate

Database	:	SQL

Servers	:	WAS server, Web Logic.

IDE	:	MyEclipse, RSA.

Scripting Language	:	HTML, JavaScript, JQuery, DOJO.

Others	:	Web Services(SOAP over HTTp, RPC calls) , JMS



Project:#1							

Title   		:  R2F (Roots 2 Financing)

Client 		:  IGF

Role 		: Developer

Team Size	: 15

Environment	: JSP, Struts, EJB, JMS, RPC services, JDBC, Hibernate,
HTML, Spring,  JavaScript, DOJO, DB2, RSA, Web Sphere Application
Server.

Description:

	The overall business goal of R2F (Routes 2 Financing) Web Services Hub
is to enable real-time financing (credit, pricing, contract) in all
routes-to-market with particular focus on process automation and sales
productivity. The R2F Hub will receive all requests for financing and
serve as a traffic cop, routing them to the appropriate back-office
applications, including credit, pricing, and contract generation, and
providing real-time feedback to the requestor. 

Roles & Responsibilities:

Understanding the Requirements.

Developing UI components using DOJO Framework.

Involved in implementing overlays using DOJO and RPC services.

Implementation of customized Exceptions. 

Developed the presentation layer and GUI framework using DOJO , JSP and
client-side validations were done using JavaScript.

Coded Service classes for business logic layer implementation.

Extensively used JSP in Struts Framework for application development

Project:#2								

Title   		:  CFE

Client 		: IGF

Role 		: Developer

Team Size	: 9

Environment	: Core Java, Jdbc, JSP, HTML, Java Script, DOJO, Struts,
DB2, Spring, Hibernate, JMS, web services and web sphere Application
Server.

Description:

	The Contracts Front End application is a central World Wide application
that provides the editing/management of templates and creating documents
from those templates.  Current contract creation processes are manual
and done thru local countries specialized custom tools or through MS
Word documents. Since the Corporation is legally bound to the contents
of the signed contract, the Corporation needs an application that
standardizes these contract formats and ensures that the Legal
department controls the contract wording.

	The Corporation has a strategic Document Generation system today,
however, the current interface and the scope of future worldwide user
deployment requires a simple, easy to use, easy to deploy application
that can interface into the strategic systems and provide for the
editing and contract creation process. The Corporation also needs to
provide the ability to create/maintain specialized paragraphs to be
included in the document at document generation. 

Responsibilities:

Implemented this System using Struts Frame work according to the
functional requirements.

Involved in validating the user using Struts validation framework.

Involved in Implementing UI with Jsp.

Developed Jdbc code for backend processing.

Used SQL for modifying, inserting, querying the data in the database.

Generated and implemented Test Jsp's to test web service . 

