Mudit Dixit[Mudit_dixit@rediffmail.com, +91 9881835523]
Senior software engineer specialized in Java/J2EE (Windows, Linux)
Experience Synopsis
• 9+ years of experience in in Java J2EE
• Working as a Scrum Master (acting team lead).
• Experience in design and developing large scale, multi-threaded and high performance application on
windows, Linux.
• Good understanding of data structures, algorithms and object oriented design.
• Experience in Web application development.
Skills (Recent/extended exposure highlighted in bold)
• Languages: Java, XML, Javascript , HTML
• Frameworks/Libraries: Spring, Hibernate, Hadoop ,Web Services, Apache Solr ,Apache-cxf
• Design: UML, Rational rose
• Operating systems: Windows, Ubuntu, Fedora, Centos, Red Hat.
• Database: MYSQL, Cassandra, MongoDB,Oracle 10G, Elasticsearch.
• Tools: Eclipse, Edit Plus, IBM RAD, Spring-sts, MYSQL workbench, putty, Javamelody, Jira, Jenkins,
Nagios, TOAD
• Project management: Jira, Agile/scrum, CI, TDD.
Work History
• Talentica Software Pvt. Ltd, Pune: Nov 2012 – Till date (3 yrs.)
• Pitney Bowes Software Ltd, Noida: Aug 2010 – Nov 2012 (2 yrs.)
• Sopra Group, Noida: Nov 2009 – Aug 2010 (9 months)
• HCL Technologies Ltd, Noida: June 2006 – Nov 2009 (3.5 yrs.)
Professional Certification
•

•

Sun Certified Java Programmers: SCJP 1.4 certification exam by Sun Microsystems on 23rd May 2007
with 86%.
Sun Certified Web Component Developer SCWCD 1.4 certification exam by Sun Microsystems with 81%.

Career Progression



Senior Software Engineer, I3(acting TL) Talentica Software

Duration: Sep 2012 – Till date ( 3 yrs.)

Principal Accountabilities:
• Worked as a scrum master involved in sprint planning.
• Gather high level feature requirements/specifications.
• feature requirements
• Participate in high level and low level design, review design by team members.
• Provide technical guidance to team members.
• Ensure quality of release deliverable.
Projects:
• Admarvel : AdMarvel is a Premium Mobile Ad-Server, providing generic ad-serving solutions for different
mobile environment as well as dedicated solution SDKs for widely popular Operating Systems iOS and
Android. The platform serves over 15Bn+ ads per day with over 1Bn active unique users.
Responsibility: To design and build a solution to facilitate real time dashboard for audience
management platform.
•

Droover– This platform is built from scratch is a social networking platform where blogs, images and
videos can be shared and categorized, it has functionality where a user can follow another user of same
interest group, can view the follow feed of the user’s he is following. A user in Droover can comment, like
and recommend blog, news, images and videos to his follower’s, User can start a discussion or interest
group. Droover also have search functionality for blogs videos and images, user can also navigate blogs,
images and videos in hierarchy.

Tools and Technologies: Spring 4, apache-solrj 4.7.2, hibernate 4 ,apache-tomcat-8.0.3, MySQL Server
5.1, maven 3.0.5, apache-cassandra-2.0.10, javamelody , jira, jenkins, nagios , apache-maven 3.0.5,
eclipse-luna, putty.
Responsibilities: Requirement gathering, designing, sprint planning, distributing/assigning task, team
management, development , code review , system admin.
•

Vuclip – Using a model platform that is re-usable for different carriers enabling rapid application development
the platform uses technology that enables the system to seamlessly stream video over a variable network
speed.
Tools and Technologies: Java, Apache-cxf, Spring 3, Hibernate 4, mysql, maven, apache-tomcat, Nagios,

Jenkins continuous integration server, svn, Agile project management Jira.
Responsibilities: Leading a team to develop platform over which carrier integration can be done in a short
span of two weeks.



Consultant, Pitney Bowes Software India Pvt Ltd.

Duration: Aug 2010 – Nov 2012(2 yrs.)

Projects:
• GECO Management Portal– GMP is a platform to provide a new corporate GIS solution to SPL (Sweden
Postcode Lotteries).
Tools and Technologies:

Core Java, Rest, JSON, GEOJSON, JQuery, Spring 3, Oracle Spatial.

Responsibilities: Designing, Developing, Client support .
•

MTS – The Electronic Bill Presentment and Payment is a solution to implement Document Composition
Platform to design and generate Physical Invoice statements for customers, Archival and retrieval of the
bills being sent to the customers, online presentment and payment of the bills, Customer Web Self Care
portal to engage customers online.is a platform to provide a new corporate GIS solution to SPL (Sweden
Postcode Lotteries).
Tools and Technologies: J2SE 5, Struts 2, EJB 3, Webservice, jboss 4, Eclipse, SQL Developer, SOAP
UI, fiddler

•

Madinah Municipality– Madinah Municipality project to provide a new corporate GIS solution to AlMadinah Municipality that replaces the current multiple disparate and redundant departmental GIS
applications and datasets. The new solution will provide a unified database model, shared business logic
codebase, and enterprise grade services architecture for scalability, expandability and future-proofing.
Tools and Technologies: Core Java, SOAP, REST, JSON, GEOJSON, DOJO, Oracle Spatial
Responsibilities: Designing, Developing, Client support .



Senior Software Engineer, Sopra Group.

Duration: Nov 2009 – Aug 2012( 9 months.)

Projects:
• Societe General Consumer Finance– SGCF is a configurable Information Technology system that
supports all the operations for loans It manages entire life cycle of loan contracts – provides security
features.
Responsibilities: Resolved many issues in an application,implemented business logic for new
functionalities in the project, created JSP pages and made them reusable using struts tiles,responsible for
the delivery of an application to the client.



Member Technical Staff, HCL Technologies

Duration: June 2006 – Nov 2009 (3.5 yrs.)

Projects:
• Direct Connect API of Air Canada– GMP Direct Connect API is set of Web Services which are
accessed by Air Canada Travel Agents, Booking Agencies and/or individual users of Air Canada. Direct
Connect is Travel domain project in which Open Travel Alliance compliance XML is sent from third party
containing data to server and received by web service exposed method via HTTP request in SOAP
envelop.
Responsibilities: Performing Requirement Analysis from the Functional Specification,preparing
High/Low Level designs, implementing the requirements through coding by creating Web Services and
using a combination of latest XML & JAVA Technologies & coding standards,schema designing &
modifications as per requirements, and making use of XSL to transform XML to XML or XML to
HTML,development of component for XML Parsing & binding component using JAXB,packaging and
deployment of Release on the Air Canada UAT Server.
•

Priceline.com – Priceline.com's travel research site MyTravelGuide.com provides comprehensive
information about attractions, locations, possible travel options besides user reviews for the visitors.
Responsibilities: Played the role of Developer for the project,involved in modifying and creating JSP’s
and Servlets, developed and enforced standards to ensure the quality assurance achievement in all
phases of SDLC, prepared Daily status reports for clients.

•

ATG-ROAD – Development and Maintenance of ATG Products Installer for Windows and Unix,Makes
patches,Road builds ATG's products, Improves Dynamo's database, Manages the bug tracking system
(Bugzilla), Maintains ATG's source files (Perforce).
Responsibilities: Configured ATG2006.3 with different Application Servers on different Operating
Systems, developed different Installer using Install Anywhere. Developed installer of product like ATG
Site Analytics 2006.5 and launched pith, developed Swing UI Panel which is used to configure WAS6.0.1
with ATG Platform Installer Development of Swing UI Panel which is used to configure WAS6.0.1 with
ATG Platform Installer Panel for Select WAS AppServer with ATG2006.5,developed a GUI interface to
read an xml file and configure ATG according to specification given in XML using Swing and DOM
parsing and collection,developed a GUI interface to select a product from a GUI and read the necessary
product from the XML and copy it into a XML using DOM parsing and File Input Output, developed ecommerce portal on ATG Platform.

Education
• Talentica Software Pvt. Ltd, Pune: Nov 2012 – Till date (3 yrs.)
• B.E(Electronics Engineering) ,2002-2006, NIT-Surat

