Amit Verma

Email:   HYPERLINK "mailto:aries.amitverma@gmail.com" 
aries.amitverma@gmail.com 

Mobile: +91-8897899093



 CAREER SUMMARY

JAVA/J2EE Developer with 5 years of Information Technology experience.
In-depth knowledge of object oriented programming and Java/J2EE
technologies. Areas of expertise include JAVA, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, JMS,
Struts 2.0, Spring 3.x, EJB, Web Services, Hibernate and RDBMS. Have
Strong front-end development skills in JSP, JavaScript, JQuery, Ajax,
JSON, HTML, and XML. Having good knowledge of SDLC. Developed and
mentored new team members by providing application and technical
knowledge. Detailed oriented with strong problem-solving, work ethics,
communication, interpersonal and teamwork skills.

.

 Technical Skills/Competencies

Web Technologies	J2EE, Spring 3x, Struts2.0, Hibernate, JSP, Servlets,
EJB, Web Services, JavaScript, JQuery, AJAX, JSON, HTML, and XML

Languages	Core Java, PL/SQL

Database	Oracle 10g,11g

Tools & IDE	Putty, WinSCP, WinMerge, SQL developer, Eclipse, STS, 
JTest, jconsole, MQC, ITSM, Clear Case, JIRA, QC

Web Servers	Web Logic 11g, Tomcat 7

Operating Systems	Windows XP/7, Unix

Design Patterns	MVC, DAO, DTO, Business Delegate, Session Façade,
Service locator, Singleton

Version Control	SVN



EMPLOYMENT SUMMARY                                                      


         Duration	Designation	Organization	Location

       3.1 year	         Project Engineer	        Wipro Technologies 	  
       Hyderabad

       1.9 Year	         Senior Analyst	 Wells Fargo India Solutions	   
      Hyderabad



Project Exposure	

Clients	Wells Fargo

Project Name	eUpoad-EFS

Project Description	eUpload is a web application, which is used across a
digital platform to provide WF customers to upload their documents
online to full fill their application.

Project Duration	Dec-2014 to till date

Team size	2(offshore) , 2 (onsite)

Role	Module Developer

Responsibilities	Business requirement clarification and  communications 

Analysis and design of FSD

Development of use cases and Unit Testing

System integration  and SIT

Resolving post production fall outs

Performance analysis.



Environment	Java/J2ee, Spring 3.x(Core and MVC), JQuery,JSP, BlueImp
Plugins, Web services, Jms and Tomcat 7

 

Clients	Wells Fargo

Project Name	Online Application Status and SMS alerts

Project Description	OAS is an application, which is used across a
digital platform to provide application status for the online banking
customers. The WF customers can see status of their applications by
online banking. This project includes the capability of status alerts by
SMS and emails for WF customers.

Project Duration	Dec-2013 to till date

Team size	2(offshore) , 3 (onsite)

Role	Module/apps Developer

Responsibilities	Business requirement clarification and  communications 

Analysis and design of FSD

Development of use cases and Unit Testing

System integration  and SIT

Planning for build and deployment

Resolving post production fall outs



Environment	Java/J2ee, Spring 3.x, Web services, Jms, Oracle 11g,Tomcat
7

Clients	FedEx

Project Name	GATEKEEPER PHASE II

Project Description	Gatekeeper Phase II is a Web-based application. It
is a highly usable system at various FedEx locations across the globe.
The application is used for maintaining  FedEx employees transaction
information as well as inventory of physical assets in use at FedEx
Express locations and international locations; it provides reports,
transaction processing and other utilities. This application is
developed to interact with several other FedEx applications to get data
and to feed compliance reports. This system is designed to support 800
concurrent user requests at any point of time. Performance and
availability is the key concern of this application and at any point of
time any transaction should not take more than 4 seconds.

Project Duration	15-Dec-2011 to till date

Team size	11

Role	Module Developer

Responsibilities	Involved in various phases of Software Development Life
Cycle (SDLC) of the application like Requirement gathering, validating
SRS, DDS, Design, Analysis and Code development, Unit testing and bug
fixing,  

Migrated the entire Gatekeeper Phase –I application from Struts 1 to
Struts2.

Developed complete module right from the scratch.

Developed and implemented the MVC Architectural Pattern using Struts 2
Framework including JSP, Servlets and Action classes.

Proficiently created/modified new stored procedure, indexes, sequences,
tables for application. 

Created interactive reports in PDF/EXCEL format for all types of
reports.

Added functionality to send email with PDF as an attachment. 

Configured the web logic server in clustered environment in DEV, TEST
and PLA level and deployed the application.

Created shell script in server side which is used to invoke various
application related batch job.

Created a Batch job which will interact with LDAP in order to get up to
date FedEx employee data.

Implemented static service module which is an application level caching
mechanism for better performance.

Implemented a web service client from WSDL (SOAP based Web Service)
using eclipse web service wizard to interact and get employee Training
data from 3rd party system called CTMS.

Implemented Java/J2EE Design patterns like singleton, Data Transfer
Object, Data Access Object, Service Locator and Business Delegate. 

Worked with QA team for testing and resolved n numbers of defects. 

Build a team with juniors members, shared application and technical
knowledge and assigned worked to them in order to achieve strict
deadlines.

Supporting this project as a team leader.

Environment
JAVA/J2EE,Struts2,Hibernate,EJB,JMS,POI,ITEXT,JSP,Servlet,AJAX,Javascrip
t,Html,CSS,Weblogic, Oracle 11g



Client	FedEx

Project Name	FEDEX_UNIFIED_SUPT_11-12

Project Description	The project involves, providing Maintenance and
Support to a Web-based application named as Gatekeeper. The application
was used for maintaining the inventory of physical assets in use at
FedEx Express locations through its transaction management
functionalities. The system is associated with several third party
systems which includes WSSO, ROADS-DSS, STAR-FAMIS and LSSI.

 

Team Size	4

Role	Java/j2ee Developer

Project Duration	01-Jun-2011 -  28-May-2012

Responsibilities	

Worked on bug fixing and enhancements on change requests.

Analyzed and responded well on all the critical issues.

Provided on call support for both level 2 and level 3.

Interacted with the customer and responded their queries and weekly
updated the project status to the customer.

Daily performed server and application health check up.

Written Unit Test cases and performed unit testing, regression testing.

Was a part of move to production process which includes deployments of a
new and stable release of gatekeeper application by following FedEx
corporate level application deployment standards and tested it
thoroughly before committing to the customer

Environment	JAVA/J2EE,Struts 1.0,Hibernate,EJB,weblogic,Oracle 10g



Education and Certification	

B.E (Computer Science & Engineering) from UNIVERSITY INSTITUTE OF
TECHNOLOGY-RGPV, M.P in 2010

Certified Java SE 6 Programmer(OCPJP)

Professional training on Java/J2ee, Oracle, SQL and PL/SQL

H.S.E (C.B.S.E)  in 2004

S.E (C.B.S.E) in 2002

 Personal Profile

Date of Birth	23rd  June 1986

Passport No	J2421561 (valid up to 10/10/2020)

Languages Known	English,Hindi

Present Address	Kondapur,Hyderabad,AP-500081			:	Hardworking dedication
and good Communication skills



                                                                

                      

