B.S.K.Karthik

Phone: (M) India: +91 9177960120
Alternative Phone: (A) India: +91 9603096410
Email: bskkarthik@gmail.com

Professional Objective
Interested in the field of software development with the main aim being to learn new things, get a
feel of real world applications, and apply technology that offers professional growth while being
resourceful, innovative and flexible

Summary
 Working as Product Developer with total having 5 years and 4 months of experience.
 Proficient hands-on knowledge in Java.
 Hands -on experience on Enhancing/Correcting the Functionality reported by client in Core
Java.
 Hands -on experience in Web and Native Application Development using technologies like JSF,
Spring, Hibernate, jQuery, Primefaces, HTML5 and CSS.
 Received "Long Service Recognition Award" for completing 5 years of service in CSC India,
Hyderabad.
 Received "Kudos Award" for all the work that has done which includes quality service cases
fixing and cases verifications.
 Received "Key to Success" Award in CSC India for taking care of daily deployment activities
effectively
 Received Appreciation from Managers and Client and won Accolades for efficiently handling
all the tasks assigned to me.
 Received Pratibha Award from Govt.of Andhra Pradesh for securing 95.7% in Intermediate.
 Expertise in Debugging the Code in IDE’s like Eclipse.
 Good Technical, Analytical and Problem Solving skills.
 Excellent Interpersonal and Communication skills.
 A quick learner and self-starter.
 An effective team player with excellent motivating skills

H.NO:2-36, Gowthami Nagar Colony, Chandanagar, Hyd-500050

B.S.K.Karthik

Phone: (M) India: +91 9177960120
Alternative Phone: (A) India: +91 9603096410
Email: bskkarthik@gmail.com

Software Proficiency
Programming Languages : Java, C
Database
Application Servers
IDEs
Frameworks
Mobile Technologies
Internet Technologies
Web Containers
Tools and Utilities
Operating Systems

: DB2, Oracle 9i, SQLLite, Hibernate
: Web sphere (WAS)
: Eclipse, RAD, Spring Tool Suite, Microsoft Visual Studio .NET
: Spring, Hibernate
: BlackBerry, iPhone, Titanium
: JSF, HTML5, CSS, jQuery, Primefaces
: Tomcat 6, 7
: JIRA, Tortoise SVN
: Windows XP, Windows 7, Mac

Professional Experience
Currently working as Professional 1: Product Developer in Computer Sciences Corporation,
Hyderabad since 9th November 2009.

Academic Summary
M.E.Software Systems from Birla Institute of Technology & Science (BITS), Pilani in 2009.
M.Sc. (Hons.) Mathematics and B.E. (Hons.) Civil from Birla Institute of Technology & Science (BITS),
Pilani in 2006.

Internship Details during Academics
Organization: IBM India, Hyderabad
Duration: Jan – June 2009
Role: Post Graduate Trainee


Worked on Static Analysis and Serviceability on Connectivity Component

Organization: Instruction Division (ID), BITS- Pilani
Duration: July 2006- July 2008
Role: Project Assistant
 Involved in software development activities at Instruction Division which includes Timetable
making, Test Scheduling, Class room Booking, Handout and Project allotment.
 Web administrator for Instruction Division Website.

H.NO:2-36, Gowthami Nagar Colony, Chandanagar, Hyd-500050

B.S.K.Karthik

Phone: (M) India: +91 9177960120
Alternative Phone: (A) India: +91 9603096410
Email: bskkarthik@gmail.com

Organization: BITSunami, Chennai
Duration: July - Dec 2005
Role: Graduate Trainee


Developed GIS based mapping for Tsunami affected villages at Nagapattinam District.

Organization: Hi Tech Print Systems, Vijayawada
Duration: May - July 2003
Role: Summer Trainee


Study on water absorption, stress-strain parameters of Fly ash bricks.

Projects in Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC)
Project - #1 Store brand International Contract System (SICS)
Duration: Jan 2013 – Till Date
Environment: Java/J2EE
Technology Details: Core Java
Project Description:
SICS is a standard software product suite for reinsurance and international insurance administration,
developed and supported by CSC. The system is primarily aimed at large, international reinsurance
companies that operate on a global basis. Customers include some of the world's largest reinsurance and
insurance companies, such as Swiss Re, Partner Re and Allianz. Also medium sized companies and small
companies use the products. Large companies usually buy SICS to replace internal systems and
consolidate data and processes into one, centralized system. Gains come through reduced IT costs,
improved and standardized processes, improved data quality, better reporting, and access to new
features, and ability to monitor the business internationally.
Role:
 Working on correction/enhancement cases reported by the client.
 Working on committing the code to SVN (Version control).

Project - #2: Certificate Management System
Duration: April 2011– Jan 2013
Environment: Java/J2EE
Technology Details: JSF (Java Server Faces), Spring Web Flow, Spring MVC, Primefaces, CSS, Jquery.
Project Description:
Exceed is one of the largest insurance product developed by CSC supporting number of clients. The
Certificate Management System is a new module developed in exceed for Federated Insurance. Exceed’s
Certificates Management System is a new sub-system being developed to extend the current Insurance
product called Exceed. This product will be used to create, change, expire, reissue, reinstate, issue and
distribute the proof of insurance called as Certificates.

H.NO:2-36, Gowthami Nagar Colony, Chandanagar, Hyd-500050

B.S.K.Karthik

Phone: (M) India: +91 9177960120
Alternative Phone: (A) India: +91 9603096410
Email: bskkarthik@gmail.com

Role:
 Worked on Screen design and backing beans for each screen design using JSF and Spring
Web Flow.
 Worked on Local Persistence (caching), Spring security
 Worked on the deployment process
 Worked on committing the code to SVN (Version control).

Project - #3: Mobile Application Development

Duration: Nov 2009 – April 2011
Environment: Java/ J2EE
Technology Details: JSF (Java Server Faces), Spring Web Flow, Spring MVC, HTML5, CSS Jquery,
Primefaces
Project Description:
Mobile Application development Provides a web interface for many (host or products) like Exceed,
Agency link, Cyber life, Series2.It has policy Inquiry, Claims Inquiry, FNOL process, Bill Payment for almost
all the hosts. It supports iPhone, Blackberry and Playbook
Role:
 Prepared Wireframes for FNOL (First Notice of Loss) Auto, JSF start claim screens for Blackberry
and iPhone Interface.
 Completed Documentation on Client Search, Client and Agent portfolio (My policies), DCA
Inquiry, Rebalance Inquiry, Forgot Password, New User Registration, and Submit Claim.
 Worked on Screen design and Service tier code for Home Owners Inquiry for Exceed and Agency
Link.
 Worked on Screen design and Service tier code for Bill Payment for Exceed (Auto and Home
Owners).
 Worked on Internationalization and localization
 Worked on First Notice of Loss (FNOL) for Native application Blackberry Torch using Blackberry
Webworks and iPhone.


Worked on Screen design for patient in your pocket for Blackberry Playbook and Blackberry
Torch.

Personal Details
Date of Birth
Marital Status
Permanent Address
Mobile
Email

3rd Oct, 1983
Married
H.No:2-36, Gowthami Nagar Colony, Chandanagar, Hyderabad-500050
9177960120
bskkarthik@gmail.com

H.NO:2-36, Gowthami Nagar Colony, Chandanagar, Hyd-500050

