Puneet Paneri 

puneet_paneri@yahoo.co.in 

+91 9848882544

OBJECTIVE

To work in a competitive and innovative environment where I can
contribute my best to meet organizational goals. I am constantly looking
at newer technologies, newer ideas, better tools and software, newer
processes to improve what we do. Have interest in Machine Learning and
Data Science. I would like to pursue my career in Big Data Analytics.

SUMMARY

Total 8 years’ experience in product development, 5 years with 3i
Infotech Ltd (Banking Domain) and 2.8 years with Oracle India and 6
months with Pegasystems.

Have designed and developed two products from scratch and have been
among the top performers consistently.

Have delivery experience of enterprise application to client, received
project closure certificate and appreciation letter from client.

Have 9 months onsite experience in development (real-time application),
implementation and requirement analysis with successful product delivery
for Uralsib Bank (Russia) AMLock Project.

Have 1 month onsite experience of POC (proof of concept) for Bank Du
Caire, Egypt.

Have 1 month onsite experience of POC (proof of concept) for Bank BIDV,
Vietnam.

Work as freelancer, completed client project, Employee and Payroll
Management System, Congo (Africa), working in production environment
from 2+ year.

Very much interested in data science, I work on projects on kaggel.com
and coursolve.org.   

Professional Experience 6 months - Product                              
    Pegasystems                                  Hyderabad, AP  

Product	Direct Capture of Objectives,PegaRules Process Commander(PRPC) 

                             Designation: Principal Software Engineer

	

Professional Experience 2.8 years - Product                             
     Oracle India                                 Hyderabad, AP  

Product	Enterprise Manager (Oracle E-business Suite Plug-in) 

	Designation: Project Lead	

	Oracle E-Business Suite plug-in for Enterprise Manager monitors all the
E-Business Suite instances running in an enterprise.

Environment: Oracle ADF(ADF (Faces), ADF BC, ADF Tasks Flows), java,
XML, XSD, Oracle database, weblogic application server.

Professional Experience 5 years - Products                              
     3i Infotech Limited               Hyderabad, AP  

Product	FDMS ( Fraud Detection and Management System )

	  FDMS is a solution for Banks to scan customers and transactions
against blacklisted entities. Monitor suspicious activity of customers,
calculate risk and generate alerts on suspicious accounts and
transactions. It is browser-based high volume transaction application
developed on the J2EE framewor, capable of running on multiple operating
systems & databases. Using rules based engine to monitors and tracks
down potential fraudulent transactions.

Environment: java, j2ee (EJB, JMS, JAXB, JDBC, Servlet, JSP, Framework :
Struts, Spring), XML, XSD, Webservices (SOAP, WSDL). Oracle 10g.
Websphere 6.1,Weblogic 10.3, Lucene search engine	

Product     	AMLock ( Anti Money Laundering )

 	 AMLocK is an Anti Money Laundering Solution to assist banks to detect
and investigate suspicious customers and transactions. Real-time
transaction monitoring application to identify illegal transactions
involved in money laundering.

  This can be deployed any Application Server like WebSphere, Weblogic,
Pramati and JBoss. It supports both Oracle and MSSql database servers. 

Environment: java, j2ee (EJB, JMS, JAXB, JDBC, Servlet, JSP, Framework :
Struts, Spring), XML, XSD.

                                                        Oracle 10g.
Websphere 6.1,Weblogic 10.3, Lucene search engine

Professional Experience - Major Projects                                
Pegasystems India      	                             Hyderabad, AP  

2015	Product Title: DCO: Direct Capture of Objectives	    Hyderabad, AP 
                                                                     

(Feb-till date)      	Team Size: 10 members.

(7 Months)     		Role: Designing the product modules, preparing project
plan, leading team to meet the deliverables. 

DCO, the Direct Capture of Objectives, is the process of capturing,
organizing and storing business process information using Process
Commander tools. It is an enabling technology used by business, IT, QA
and others in a collaborative way to transmit business requirements
directly into PegaRules Process Commander(PRPC) so they can be
transformed into processes..

Environment: PRPC 7.1.8.

Professional Experience - Major Projects                                
Oracle India      	                             Hyderabad, AP  

2012	Product Title: Enterprise Manager (Oracle E-Business Suite Plug-in)
 Hyderabad, AP                                                          
            	   

(Jun-till date)      	Team Size: 10 members.

(2.5+ Years)     		Role: Designing the product modules, preparing
project plan, leading team to meet the deliverables. 

First person in our team to initiate development in Oracle ADF from
scratch. Received appreciation from management for taking initiative in
newly adapted Oracle ADF technology in our team and completing the
crucial project within the timeline. 

Designed and developed monitoring modules for E-Business Suite Plug-in
in Oracle ADF.

Worked on HLD, impact analysis, development, unit testing and handover
the projects to QA team.

Designed database procedures and functions.

Designed automated testing framework using selenium and Junits.

Mentoring other team member to kick start development in ADF.

Received 4/5 appraisal rating.

Application Server: Weblogic Application server 

Back-end (RDBMS): Oracle database 10g.

Technologies: Oracle ADF, Java, J2ee, XML.

Data Structure & Design Patterns: List, Map, Tree, Factory Pattern,
Singleton, Adapter, Observer.

Professional Experience - Major Projects                                
   3i Infotech Limited                       Hyderabad, AP  

2011-2012	Project Title: BIDV Bank, Vietnam.   	 Hyderabad, AP

(Oct-Mar) 	Product Title: Anti Money Laundering (AMLocK)

(6 month)	Achievement: Collected project closure certificate from
client. Bank wrote an appreciation letter about my excellent work at
onsite to the management. Received 5/5 appraisal rating.   

Role: Managing project and leading the team to complete the project
deliverables.  

Went onsite to client place Vietnam and fixed the critical issues in
order to close the project requirements. 

Successfully developed and implemented Bank requirement. 

Designed and developed rules in oracle 10g (stored procedures,
functions) to identify suspicious offline transactions of a customer
based on the Egyptian government regulations.

2009-2011         Project Title: Uralsib Bank, Russia.	 Hyderabad, AP   
                                                                   	   

(Jan-Sep)      	Product Title: Anti Money Laundering (AMLocK)

(2.8 Years)           Team Size: 10 members.

Role: Techno functional role, designing and developing product,
optimizing lucene search engine.

Client’s point of contact from the project inception to final
delivery.

Done requirement analysis, design and development of AML application
considering Russian regulations.

Has been to on-site for 7 months for phase 1 implementation and
requirement analysis for phase 2 developments. 

Developed and integrated real-time distributed java messaging system
(JMS) with high-volume transaction applications in a 24/7 environment
with Core Banking System in Russia.

XML Schema development. 

Have Build rules in oracle 10g (stored procedures, functions) to
identify suspicious offline/real-time transactions of a customer based
on conditions given by the bank as per the Russian regulations.

Worked on lucene search engine and customized scanning algorithms for
customer screening in the application.

Application Server: Websphere 6.1 

Back-end (RDBMS): Oracle database 10g.

Technologies: java, j2ee (EJB, JMS, JAXB, JDBC, Servlet, JSP, Framework
: Struts, Spring), XML, XSD, Web services (SOAP, WSDL), Lucene search
engine.

Data Structure & Design Patterns: List, Map, Tree, Factory Pattern,
Singleton, Adapter, Observer.

2008 (Dec)	Project Title: Bank Du Caire, Egypt.   	 Hyderabad, AP

(1 month)	Product Title: Fraud Detection and Management System (Prof of
Concept)

Role: On-site development of requirement for Prof Of Concept.  

Successfully developed and implemented requirement during POC. 

Build rules in oracle 10g (stored procedures, functions) to identify
suspicious offline transactions of a customer based on the Egyptian
government regulations.

Developed WebService (SOAP-WSDL based) client that sends Arabic names to
other online web application and receives equivalent English translated
name for Name Scanning in the application internally using apache lucene
search engine.

2008(Mar-Nov)	Project Title: ICICI Bank, India.	 Hyderabad, AP          
                                                            	  

(9 months)    		Product Title: Anti Money Laundering (AMLocK)	

	   Team Size : 7 members.

Role: Developing the product, research on lucene search engine.

Designed high performance small sample application with very good
user-friendly interface using JSON, IFRAME, Struts, EJB that works 40%
faster than the old AMLOCK application and got the approval to use it in
the new developing AMLOCK Enterprise Application.   

Done system study, system design and got approval from project manager
to introduce new technical features to improve application performance
and scalability.

Redesigned and migrated averagely performing and outdated old Enterprise
Application to AJAX, JSON, IFRAME, Struts, JMS based system that runs
40% faster.

Modified/Removed old J2EE design patterns in the application.

Developed and did initial research on graphical representation of data
in the application using JavaScript-Visualization Kit,
JQuery-Visualization Kit, HTML5-canvas etc.

Developed WebService (SOAP-WSDL based) client that sends Arabic names to
other online web application and receives equivalent English translated
name for Name Scanning in the application internally using apache lucene
search engine. 

Build rules in oracle 10g (stored procedures, functions)  to identify
suspicious offline/realtimes transactions of a customer based on
conditions given by the ICICI bank as per the regulation.

Bandwidth consumption optimization using G-zip filter.

Application Server: Weblogic 10.3 , Websphere 6.1 

Back-end (RDBMS): Oracle 10g.

Technologies: java, j2ee (EJB, JMS, JDBC, Servlet, JSP, Framework :
Struts) ,AJAX, JQuery, JSON, Lucene search engine.

Data Structure & Design Patterns: List, Map, Tree, stack, queue, Factory
Pattern, Singleton.

2007-08	Product Title: Name Scanning System                 	Hyderabad,
AP   

(Aug-Feb) 		Real-time application to read and scan online transaction
against the standard and customized

(7 Months)           	blacklisted entities (OFAC, World Checklist,
UNCList) and send the response (Matched Records) back to the core-system
and generates analytical reports on customers and transactions.
Site-Minder was used for user authentication. Apache lucene search
engine was the choice for indexing.

Team Size: 10 members.

Client: SAMBA Bank, Saudi Arabia.

Role: Software Engineer, Design and end-to-end development of
application.

Prepared MSLLD (Module specification low level design), unit test plans.

Have done the initial research on Weblogic 10.3 (Development  &
Deployment). Took decision to use data compression utility (G-zip
filter) to minimize bandwidth and reduced 40-50% bandwidth consumption
for the modules accessed by more than 400 users concurrently.

Have done the initial research to generate analytical reports using
Business Objects. Successfully developed graphical reports on Business
Objects connecting with oracle 10g database.

Responsible for making required changes across the product on on-going
basis to meet the i18n / localization requirements and making product
available in multiple locale/languages (Arabic, English) for global
market.

Achievement: Project Scheduled for 7 months completed in 6 months. Got
project closure certificate.

Application Server: Weblogic 10.3

Back-end (RDBMS): Oracle 10g.

Technologies: java, j2ee (EJB, JDBC, JAXB, Servlet, JSP , Framework :
Struts), XML, XSD.

Business Intelligence: Business Objects, Lucene search engine.

Data Structure & Design Patterns: List, Map, Tree, stack, queue, Factory
Pattern, Singleton.

Certifications/ self-taught TECHNOLOGY

Certified System Architecture 7.1 (Pegasystems) 

Certification in   HYPERLINK
"https://s3.amazonaws.com/verify.edx.org/downloads/c0003021b3144628872f9
73a88102426/Certificate.pdf"  Introduction to Big Data with Apache Spark
, The University of California (  HYPERLINK "https://courses.edx.org" 
edX ).

Certification in   HYPERLINK "https://www.coursera.org/course/compdata" 
Computing for data Analysis  (73.5%), Johns Hopkins University
(Coursera).

Certification in   HYPERLINK "https://www.coursera.org/course/ml" 
Machine Learning  (96.4%), Stanford University (Coursera).

Certification in   HYPERLINK "https://www.coursera.org/course/datasci" 
Introduction to Data Science , University of Washington (Coursera).

Certification in   HYPERLINK "https://www.coursera.org/course/procmin" 
Process Mining: Data Science in Action , Eindhoven University of
Technology (Coursera).

Certification in   HYPERLINK
"https://s3.amazonaws.com/verify.edx.org/downloads/48f2b18b049b4eb7a5228
dfda0b765d0/Certificate.pdf"  The Analytics Edge , The Massachusetts
Institute of Technology (  HYPERLINK "https://courses.edx.org"  edX ).

In progress   HYPERLINK "https://www.coursera.org/course/bigdata"  Web
Intelligence In Big Data , IIT Delhi (Coursera).

EDUCATION

2003-2007	School of Information Technology (Formally known as IIIT
Kolkata)	Kolkata, WB                               	 B.E ( IT ) , GPA -
7.9

2002	Guru nanak Public School 	Udaipur, RAJ       	10+2, 74%

2000	Mahaveer Vidhya Mandir							       Udaipur, RAJ

	10th, 82%

SKILLS 

Programming Language 	: JAVA.

Scripting   			: R, Python, Javascript.

RDBMS 			:  Oracle 10g, SQL Server 2005.

Technology 	              : J2EE ( EJB, JMS, JAXB, JDBC, Servlet, JSP ),
XML, JAXP, SAX, DOM, StAX, XSD.

                          Web Services, SOAP, WSDL, REST, AJAX, JSON,
JQuery

Framework 		: Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle ADF (2.5 Years)

Business Intelligence 	: Business Objects.

Application Servers 	: PRAMATI Server 6, Websphere 6.1, Weblogic 10.3.

Text Search Engine 	: Apache Lucene, Elastic Search. 

Tools				: R Studio, Octave, Rapid Minor 5, Tableau.

Big Data Technology         : Hadoop, Spark,, MongoDB, Kafka, MapReduce,
Machine Learning, Mahout.

Algorithms			: Linear Regression, Logistic Regression, Neural Network,
SVM,Clustering, Anomaly                      

  Detection, Collaborative Filtering.

AWARDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS

Participated and won state level chess competitions.

Participated and won state level gymnastic championship.

PERSONAL INFORMATION

Date of Birth 				: 10th Dec. 1983

Gender 						: Male

Nationality				: Indian

Languages					: English, Hindi, Bengali.

Relevant Work Experience                               : 8 Years.

Total Work Experience			: 8 Years. 

Notice Period				: 30 days

DATE 	:	1st July  2015

LOCATION 	:  	Hyderabad							(Puneet Paneri )

TECHPOINT PROFILE

