From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience)
the following technologies?  

Hibernate                           
                  -  1.2
year                                  
             

Spring                  
                                  - 
1.2years                                
                

Web
Services                                
        - 
1years                                 
               

Core
Java                                  
             -  3years

Design
Patterns                                
    -    2year

UML
design                                 
          -    

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)                    -    No
tools

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools
etc.]

Weblogic server/Tomcat

KESAV CHAITANYA.P

Mobile:  (91) 9291567999,9014731463

Email    :   HYPERLINK "mailto:keshav.pheelkhana@gmail.com"
keshav.pheelkhana@gmail.com 

Professional Summary:

Mr. Kesav  is a Analyst  having 3+ years of experience in IT Industry in
developing JAVA, J2EE and Enterprise applications.

Expertise in developing Web based and distributed applications using
Java and well versed with Database Connectivity using JDBC API.

Proficient in programming using JAVA, J2EE Technologies (Java, JDBC,
Servlet, JSP).

Good Experience in ORM tool like Hibernate.

Working Experience on Java Springs.

Strong analytical and problem-solving skills with good interpersonal and
communication skills.

Expertise in end-to-end development of software products from
requirement analysis to coding, testing and maintenance.

Undergone training in network infrastructure configuration and
maintenance as a part of workshop.

Sound Knowledge on IT Infrastructure Configuration. 

Strong learning and problem solving skills, excellent communication
skills both written and verbal.

Educational Qualifications:

Course	Board/ University	Institution	Pass out	Grade

B.E- Computer Science	JNTU-K	Priyadarshini Institute of Technology	April
2011	II Class

XII Std	State Board	Narayana Junior College	Apr 2007	I Class

X Std	SSC	The Sun School	Apr 2005	I Class



Experience Summary: 

Worked as Software Analyst in CMC LTD,Hyderabad from August 2012 to Oct
2014

Worked as Developer in GCPL Technologies,New Delhi from Jun 2011-July
2012

Got performance appraisal in 2014 for the performance in the project at
CMC

Hands on web application development.

Capable of maintaining co-ordination between team members and constitute
healthy environment 

Having history of productivity and successful project outcomes.

Having Working experience in Client environment.

Technical Skills:

Operating System	Windows,Linux(Ubuntu 12.04)

Programming Language	Core Java, Advanced Java - Servlet, JSP.

Framework	Collection, Hibernate,Springs

RDBMS	MySQL

Tools	Eclipse,Tomcat



Project Details:

#1. 	Title: Service manager(SM) Tool

Client	Reliance Retail Limited

Role	Analyst

Company	CMC Ltd.,



Description

	As the user enters the SM tool by supplying required credentials and
login as authenticated user he is 

provided with a handful of options and upon selection of his required
option raises  a sub menu which indeed co-relate to parent option and
describe the situation provided with a contact, upon submission the
service request thrown to a help-desk which encompasses a group for
solving the problem remotely and if  not allowed they coordinate with
support engineers for resolution based on their availability, priority &
criticality of the issue, end time is generated as per SLA and the
Engineer is provided with an account to view assigned call and can close
the call or escalate the call to a higher level if complexity increases
and whole process viewable through  user window and intimated at the end
through an auto generated mail. 

Responsibilities:

Development of code for the controller and connectivity

Deployment and rectification of web portals

Stabilize new products from R&D into production

#2. 	Title: Xpress Enterprise Services

Role	Analyst

Client	FIS

Company	GCPL Technologies



Description: 

	Xpress is a Middle ware product, built in Java under the J2EE
framework, which will integrate all the products of Fidelity and
facilitate an ASP model of service provision. It will enable Customer
Centric unified architecture, provide all the tech no-functional
requirements of an EAI framework, and have a Service Oriented
Architecture that will facilitate Business Process Management, services
layer resides on top of the core applications and allows the systems to
interact using industry-standard Interactive Financial exchange (IFX)
messages. The IFX message facilitates interaction in all directions –
between services, through the interfacing channel applications, and with
external applications.

Technical Responsibilities:

Writing Service Group, Service and host adapter classes.

Preparing input and output XML files by running the services

Analysis of the specifications provided by the clients.

Presentation Layer Development using JavaScript.

Developed business logic using Core Java.

Solving any technical issues faced by reports team.

Maintenance of the application in Production.

#3. 	Title: Savanna Residency

Role	Developer,Analyst

Client	TAJ

Company	GCPL Technologies, New Delhi



Description:

	On line Booking Portal for Residency integrates accommodation
availability directly to the customers enabling ultimate users to own
their choice of living in a distance of single click by using jsp as the
controller for modeling the view of the user convenience and MySql as
the back-end technology to model and thereby  constitute to reduces man
power and saving precious time by enabling user to view the process. It
ensures booking is done by acknowledge users on their successful payment
of caution deposit for their choice and informing them through their
mentioned mail address and provide a menu to order required services
after their successful check-in.

Responsibilities:

Analyzing the specifications provided by the clients.

Presentation Layer Development using Servlets, HTML

Developed business logic using Core Java

Support and maintenance of the application during production phase.

Personal Details:

	Date of Birth		:           25-Jun-1990

	Father’s Name    	:	P. Ranga rao

	Permanent Address	:  	D. No:12-19-98,Old bank road, 

					Kothapeta, Guntur-01

             

	Phone			:	91-9291567999,9014731463

	

	E-Mail			:           keshav.pheelkhana@gmail.com

            

Kesav Chaitanya .P										20-10-2014

												Hyderabad                                         

 Kesav Chaitanya pheelkhana                                             
   	         keshav.pheelkhana@gmail.com 	

