From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience)
the following technologies?  

Hibernate        ADS technology   
                                  -  3
year 

Spring                  
                                  -  3
year & 

Web
Services                                
        -  using
                                    
           

Core
Java                                  
             -  5.4 year

Design
Patterns                                
    -   

UML
design                                 
          -    

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)                    -   
Ant   

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools
etc.]

eblogic

12/15/30days

DB:oraclel

7 people    

Available on tuesday                      

Name: BHARGAV T. SONI

Phone: 9985647236-(C) 

Email: akshar2004@yahoo.com

Objective



To leverage 7 years of professional experience with good opportunity.

Experience Insight



Ability to work on multiple projects.

Ability to prepare design documents based on project requirement.

Work Experience with small to large scale project suites.

Excellent communication, problem solving skill set as a good team
player.

Work experience with foreign teams.

Onsite training and work experience.

Technical Skills



Operating Systems	            :	Linux, Windows, SunOS.                  
               

Languages (Hands On)         :         Java, PHP, PERL, JavaScript,
HTML, CSS

 

Known Frameworks               :          ADF, JSF, Hibernate, Spring,
GWT

Professional and Educational Qualifications



S.S.C Marks (Year 2000)    : 86%. 

H.S.C Marks (Year 2002)   : 77%.

Aggregate of Engineering  : 70.20% [Distinction, Gujarat University]

Sun Certified Java Programmer (SCJP) Exam in November, 2009

Current Employer   : Oracle India PVT Ltd.      [May 2010 – till date]

Previous Employer : Synopsys India PVT Ltd.  [Jun 2006 – May 2010]

Projects at Oracle India PVT Ltd : 

Document Factory

Document Factory is a system to generate documents based on defined
templates. It can generate document in batch mode or immediate. It is
multithreaded application and resembles assembly line concept to
generate document.

Language : Java 

Framework : JMS, JMX.

Database : Oracle

Team Members : 4

Role : Team Lead /Developer.

Documaker Dashboard

Document Factory Dashboard is web based application to show statistics
of each stage of document generation. It keeps track of number of jobs
to generate document with its status of complete,pending, or error . it
has strong searching capability to search from chunk of jobs in last
year.

Langauge : java

Database : Oracle

Framework : ADF [Application Development Framework ]

Team Member : 4

Role : Team Lead / Developer .

Documaker Interactive

Documaker Interactive is a web based application which is intended to
generate on the fly document based on user request. It does have
capabilities to communicate with other system through workflow. It does
have functionality of correspondence after document is generated.

Language : Java, BPEL

Database : Oracle

Framework : ADF

Team Member : 4

Role: Team Lead / Developer

Component Database Application

This application keeps record of all the components that are needed to
build a installer of a product .component is consist of files which
needs to be included in the build of installer . Through this interface
user can easily do all operations related to components and files.
Administrator and normal user roles are assigned as per the need.

Langauge: PHP and DOJO

Database: MySQL

Team Member:1

Role: Developer and Designer.	

Projects at Synopsys India PVT Ltd :

Compute Farm Health Monitoring (CFHM)

This project is intended to monitor the LSF farm. It reports all the
statistics for monitoring a farm. Different monitoring field’s report
generation, Custom Report generation and Custom web view are some of the
unique feature available in the CFHM.

Language: JAVA, C, PERL, PHP.

Database: MySQL.

Framework: GWT (Google Web Toolkit).

Charting Tool: RRD.

Team Members: 3

Role: System Designer, Developer

Priority Based Allocation (PBA)

This system is useful to make the job allocation in the LSF farm on
specified priorities. Priority allocation, job requeue, Additional slot
allocation as per specified requirements that are peculiar features of
the system.

Language: C

Database: MySQL.

Team Members: 2

Role: System Designer, Developer.

MICE Upgrade

Monitoring Infrastructure and Compute Environment project intended to
view all infrastructure health and performance statistics. It provides
one interface through which all services’ information available for
whole organization.

Language: JAVA.

Framework: JSF, Spring, Hibernate.

Database: Oracle.

Charting Tool: Fusion Charts.

Role: System Designer, Developer.

License Server Monitoring:

This project is developed to monitor each and every activity done on
license server.

Alerts, Reports, Charts are generated to monitor the license server.
Project helps out to diagnose the critical condition of License Server.

Language: PHP, PERL, AJAX.

Database: MySQL.

Team Member: 4

Role: System Designer, Developer.

On Call System:

This System help to schedule employees who are suppose to be on the call
duty. Graphical representation of the scheduled call is the core of the
system. Through interface users and groups are scheduled, added and
deleted.

Language: PHP, AJAX.

Database: MySQL.

Team Member: 1

Role:  Developer.

Business Rules Monitoring [BRM]:

This System is intended to notify users in compute farm for their
excessive usage of CPU/Memory. Worked on one of the module of BRM to
enhance capability such that specified user would be notified for
specified parameter with flexible configuration file parameters.

Language: PERL, 

Database: Flat File.

Team Member: 3

Role: Developer.

Weekly Report Generator:

This Project provides the way by which employee can generate the weekly
activity reports.  Employee has to just provide the information by
category wise and it will generate the report in html format for
specified week.

Language: PHP.

Database: MySQL.

Team Member: 1

Role: Developer.

Personal Information



Date of Birth			: 20th January, 1985.

Sex				: Male.

Marital Status			: Married.

Nationality			: Indian.

Spoken Languages		: English, Hindi, and Gujarati.

Visa Status                            : B1 Visa Valid up to 2020.

Project Profile (Academic Projects)



Project Name		 : Web based System administration and System monitoring
(8th semester)

Company Name          :  Physical Research Laboratry (PRL).

Year		             :  Eight Semester

Platform/Tools           :  Linux, Perl, PHP, Mysql, Apache

Description	: This project maintains the important files of each system
to server. Daily all the important files are transferred to server and
generate graphs by extracting data from file. 			

System Administrator can maintain availability and reach ability of any
system from the server as well as can run several commands from server
to remote machine shell from web to get data about machine.

System monitoring is concerned to manage the user/group, Backup etc
features of a system.

			

Bhargav T.Soni

		                                                                      
                                  	                                     
   

  PAGE  1 

