SRAVAN KUMAR      		                                       E-Mail: sravone2021@gmail.com

Sr.Software Associate				             Mobile: +91-9551291236

						

	Professional Summery                              	



		3+ years of experience in IT Industry in all aspects of Design and Development on Java, J2EE ,Struts based applications. 

		Completely involved in Development of the applications using Java, PL/SQL, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Hibernate, Apache Tomcat, Weblogic, Struts and Spring Frame works.

		Successfully configured design screens using HTML .

		Experience on development of applications using Struts, Spring and Hibernate technology.

		Expertly developed scalable solutions to enhance efficiency, productivity and profitability with a demonstrated ability to map project scope and specifications.

		Having very good implementation knowledge of OOPs concepts.

		Good Exposure to Unix environment and Shell scripting. 

		Hands on experience in Oracle SQL/PLSQL with SQL Developer environment in writing creating tables,indexes, views and querying database to fetch the data using Joins and other conditions

	Professional Experience	

	

	

	Working as Sr.Software Associate in L&T Infotech  from 02 Apr 2012 to till date, Chennai

	Worked as Software Associate in Polaris, from Jul 2011 to 31 Mar 2012, Hyderabad.  

	Professional certifications	



	Certified in NSE Capital Markets



	Certified in IT Service Management version 3.

	Educational Qualification                         	



MCA  from Osmania University.

	Technical Skills                            	

		Languages	:	JSE,JEE

		J2EE Technologies	:	Servlets 2.1, JSP 2.2, JDBC

		Secondary Languages	:	SQL,PL/SQL,Unix Shell scripting, Java script, HTML.

		Frame works	:	Struts 1.3, Struts 2.0,Spring 3.0

		ORM Technologies	:	Hibernate 3.0

		Data Base	:	Oracle 10g

		Servers	:	Apache Tomcat 5.5/6.0, Weblogic 11g.

		Operating Systems	:	Windows (XP, 2000,2007),Unix

		Automated Utilities	:	Maven,Log4j,Junit.

		   Tools	:	Eclipse,MyEclips 6.0.

		Project 1

		

		Project Name

		Citi-GFTS

		Team Size

		9

		Start Date

		July 2012

		End Date

		Till Date

		Description

		GFTS is a database driven RTView framework for End to End Application Monitoring at Citi, it provide services by monitoring all citi applications, STE (BO,BPM,AI,NDM) and infrastructure and send email alerts if it identifies any critical issue.so that application support teams will heads up to resolve the issue.

		

		Role & Contribution

		Worked on developing the web interface using Java/J2EE, spring MVC and Oracle.

		Writing shell scripts for automation

		Written code for implementing DAO layer using Spring JDBC Template

		Developed user interface using JSP and JSTL tab library.

		Written test cases

		

		Technologies

		Java/JEE, Struts2, JSP, RTView, Oracle 10g

		Tools

		Eclipse IDE, SVN, RTView, winscp, SQL Developer

		

		

Project 2



Project Name

Citibank-OREAS

Team Size

12

Start Date

July 2011

End Date

Mar 2012

Description

OREAS is built on an existing platform used in Europe (CPB EMEA P&L System), which has been in use since 2002.  GWM Independent Operational Risk identified this existing proven technology platform as an efficient and cost effective way to ensure the proper identification of operational risk events.  OREAS will automate the existing manual workflow and approval process.  In addition, the system provides for the accurate approval, timely resolution, and reporting of operational risk events.



Role & Contribution

Writing JSP code, use of  struts tag library and JSTL tag library.

Developing controller classes using spring framework.

Developing the domain classes and DTO’s.

Involved development of DAO’s and Service layers.

Writing queries using HQL and Criteria API.



Technologies

JSP, Spring3.0, Hibernate 3.0, Java 6, Java beans, ,  Oracle 10g, Windows XP OS, Apache Tomcat Webserver 6.0

Tools

Eclipse IDE, SVN

.

























































	Personal Details                  	

			

	

	Location	:	Mumbai

		

Declaration

	

I hereby declare that the above written particulars are true to the best of my knowledge and belief.





							         (Sravan Kumar)