MANGESH PATHAK

Email ID:   HYPERLINK "mailto:mangeshpathak963@gmail.com"
mangeshpathak963@gmail.com 

Contact Number: +918983033618

Career Objective :

To pursue a career in an organization that offers continuous learning,
good career growth and opportunities to upgrade while being resourceful
and innovative. 

Willing to work as a key player in challenging & creative environment.

Career Summary :

3+ years of work experience in analysis, design & development of
applications using Java and J2EE. 

2.5+ year of experience in development with J2EE  frameworks such as
Spring, Hibernate, JPA and Servlet.

Experience in using PostgreSQL and MySQL relational databases.

Experience with web services and REST, XML and JSON. 

Experience in Shell Scripting & C language. 

Experience in development on Windows and Linux Operating System.

Familiar with Data Structures and Design Patterns

Very good experience and understanding of Networking, Network topology,
Network Security(Network access Control) and networking protocol.

Experience in  Java Development tools such as Eclipse, Tomcat, JPA
Tools.

Experience on tools such as CVS, Git, Bitbucket, Jira and Bugzilla.

Familiar with web development languages such as PHP, JavaScript,
AngularJS, HTML, JQuery & AJAX. 

Technical Skills :

Programming:                       Java, C, Data structures and Design
patterns.

Java Frameworks:                   Spring, Hibernate, JPA, Servlet. 

Scripting:	                      Shell Scripting.

Operating Systems:                 Linux, Windows.

Databases:	                      MySQL, PostgreSQL

Web Services: 	                      HTML, PHP, JavaScript, JQuery,
Ajax, CSS.

Networking protocols:         TCP/IP.

Tools: 		                      Eclipse, Tomcat,  Git, Bitbucket, Jira,
CVS, Bugzilla, Maven.

Total Work Experience :  3.0 years.

Nevis Networks India PVT LTD

Senior Software Engineer 						         (26/11/2012- Till Present)

Projects:

Design and Develop Custom application on top of Network Monitoring
Tool(NMS) for client to automate its configure its network devices and
health monitoring:

To design and develop custom application on the top NMS which should be
able to provision new network devices into system, should be able to
configure devices for various configuration supported from provided GUI.


The system should provide GUI and REST API support for user's various
day to day operations.

The system should then configure devices as per the entered data by the
user. 

The system should be analyze data, evaluate cost for each link for
billing.

The system should monitor devices health and reconfigure traffic if it
finds any issue and alert admin about the action taken.

The system should interact with client's system using REST API's.

Role & Contribution

Understand device configuration that is pushed on devices and design GUI
screens for required user input. 

Design different backend modules required for configuration, database
access, alerts, analytics, logs.

Design database schema, GUI modules, REST API, and common framework.

Create project plan, mentor team members, help them in solving complex
problems.

Create a test plan, code review, build process and deployment process.

Skills: Ansible, MySQL, Shell Script, PHP.  

Design and Develop Multi-Tenant Cloud Based Network Monitoring Tool

Design and implement framework which will calculate network performance,
find any network issues, should able to find network path to the
destination and generate result for each case. These result is uploaded
on cloud server, processed and store in database. 

This framework will run on device called as sensor which can be plugged
into customer network.

Provide web interface to user for configuring framework, to view
results, to see network performance and alarms raised if any. 

	Role & Contribution:

Designed & implemented Multi-tenant system using Spring Framework &
Java.

Designed & implemented framework which will monitor network, upload
result on server automatically update itself if new version in
available.  

Designed database schema to support Multi-tenant system 

Implemented web interfaces to allow server-sensor communication. This
web interfaces are responsible for result processing, configuration and
updates.

Implemented REST API for communicating for processing GUI requests 

Co-ordinate with GUI team for any issues, clarification, debugging and
solving API problems. 

	Skills: Java Spring 4, JPA, Hibernate, Servlets, JDBC, MySQL, Shell
Scripting, AngularJS, 

Development of next generation LANenforcer Security Appliance (LE) on
CAVIUM

platform:

Develop and port existing LE software on to Cavium Platform.

Migrate LE's database from Relex Database to PostgreSQL Database and
implement interface for executing SQL queries on PostgreSQL server.

Port Apache web server,  PHP, PostgreSQL on Cavium Platform.

Add Next Generation LE Support in LANsight Security appliance. 

Role & Contribution:

Have Ported PostgreSQL, Apache, PHP for Cavium Platform.

Implemented PostgreSQL C Library API's to execute SQL Queries. 

Have understood & modified existing code to support PostgreSQL API with
minimal code changes.

Provided scripts to start database, to create schema, to do database
backup, restore default database, to upgrade database and database
related existing commands. 

Modified LANsight software to support Next Generation LE. 

Skills: C, JAVA, PostgresSQL, Shell Script, GCC.

Run LANsight Security Management Appliance platform (LS) on 64 bit
Linux:

Run LS Software on 64 bit Fedora Linux to support newer Hardware.

Change LS build process, LS Installation and LS upgrade process to
support 64 bit LS.

Role & Contribution:

Identified required 	dependencies to start LS on 64 bit Linux.

Changed LS installation process to install these dependencies before
installing actual LS .

Updated LS upgrade process to upgrade LS depending upon LS hardware.

Changed build process to include 64 bit LS dependencies in final build.

Have ported code so that ported code should run on 32 & 64 bit platform.

Skills: Shell script, Linux, ANT, Apache

Develop Link and Bandwidth Monitoring feature on LANsight Security
Management Appliance (LS):

Monitor user configured links and notify admin about link status if any
link is down.

Generate link statistic reports of link downtime & graphs of link
performance. 

Periodically monitor, plot graph, bandwidth usage of  users, subnets,
per switch interface input/output traffic.

Role & Contribution:

Provided GUI for user to configure links to be monitored. 

Written shell script o periodically monitor links, report admin in case
of link failure and save result onto disk. Generate downtime reports and
link statistic graph based on result using RRDTool.

Written shell scripts to calculate per user, subnet traffic and to
generate graphs based on data using RRDTool.

Written shell scripts to get Switch interface traffic statistic using
SNMP and plot graphs using RRDTool.

Skills: MySQL, PostgresSQL, RRDTool, Shell script, PHP, HTML,
JavaScript, JQuery.

Additional features development for LANsight Security Management
Appliance (LS):

Development of BYOD (Bring-Your-Own-Devices) on LANsight Security
Management Appliance (LS)

Adding inventory management support in LS

Custom Anti-Virus signature update.

Adding SMS Support in LANsight Security Management Appliance (LS)

Added feature to generate automatic compliance report and send to admin.

Other Works:

Supporting Technical associate support team for customer issues related
to LANsight Security Management Appliance (LS)

To give LANsight installation support for PoC (proof-of-Concept)

Managing build & releases of software.

As Freelancer (January 2012- September 2012).

Projects:-

Develop website for Appadoc company(Hospital Patient Management System):

Job involves developing website.

Job involves developing Sign-in/Signup functionality for practice &
patient.

Job involves developing landing page after Sign-in which includes 5
tabs.

Used MVC style coding for developing all the pages.

Used Yii framework. 

Job involves writing test cases & report for the functionality provided.

Skills: HTML, PHP, Ajax, JavaScript, CSS, MySQL database, Yii framework.

Develop website for Premier-Timberland:

Job involves developing a website for Company (   HYPERLINK
"http://www.premiertimberland.com"  www.premiertimberland.com  ).

Job involves providing content management system (CMS).

Used TinyMCE to edit html pages for admin persons. 

Job involves providing different functionalities for adding,
editing/deleting properties, staff, managing social icons, activating &
deactivating properties and other.

Job involves writing test cases & report for the functionality provided.

Skills: HTML, PHP, Ajax, JavaScript, CSS, MySQL database.

Education :

B.E. in Electronics & Telecommunication	

	University of Pune(2011)

	Marks 63.00%

 

H.S.C

	Maharashtra State Board, Pune(2007)	

	Marks 62.50%

S.S.C.	

	Maharashtra State Board, Pune(2005)

	Marks 76.40%

 Academic Project :

Surveillance Robot Using Micro-Controller

