						

Springs:2.6months&currenyt

Hibernate:2.6 n current

Webservices:2.6 year& current

Uml design:no

Design patter:yes

Appln server: jboss/websphere/

IDE: eclipse

Code: sonar

Build tools: maven

DB: oracle

Name:  Pavan Kumar .S                           

Mobile:  +91-8686806993

E-mail:   HYPERLINK "mailto:pavan4950@gmail.com" pavan4950@gmail.com  

CAREER OBJECTIVE



To work in an innovative and competitive world, intend to build a career
with leading corporate of hi-tech environment with committed and
dedicated people.

PROFESSIONAL PROFILE



Experience of 4.10 years in Software Development (Java 7.0) in
Enterprise Application.

Proficient in developing Java Web Applications using Wicket, Spring and
Hibernate.

Experienced in all phases of SDLC.

Have good experience in On site-Offshore delivery model.

Involved in requirements gathering and analysis.

Versatile team player and individual contributor with strong analytical
and problem solving skills.

Involved in production support activities.

Good communication, interpersonal and team skills. 

Passionate in learning new technologies, enthusiastic and always keen to
reach an extra mile.

Have experience in java web service ( SOAP, REST) .

Domain knowledge includes E-commerce,Logistics & BSFI: Investment
banking – Mutual Funds, Portfolio Analytics and Customer Relationship
Management & Accounting Module.

Having  knowledge in E-Commerce - B2B & B2C Concepts.

Having  knowledge in managing cron job using instance and service and
impex of various hybris item.

Having  knowledge in Complete cart/order checkout process.

Having  knowledge in voucher (promotional and serial ) and promotions (
product and order level).

Having knowledge on  Data hub.

ACADEMIC PROFILE:



Qualification	University/Board	Passing Year	Percentage

M.C.A	Bangalore	May 2009	82%

B.Sc(Electronics)	ANU University	May-2006	70 %

Intermediate	BOIE	May-2003	63%

S.S.C	SSC	May -2001	83 %



PROFESSIONAL SKILLS:

Languages	Java

Client Technologies	HTML, JSP, JavaScript,

Frameworks and Other API	Wicket, Servlets,Spring, Hibernate, Ext Js, SAP
– Hybris, Web Services, JMS, Quartz Scheduler,
JPA,Struts,JSON,JiBx,Multitherading

Servers	Apache Tomcat 6.18, Jetty, Web logic,J boss

Design & Development 

Tools	Eclipse ,Maven, Ant

Data Access & Databases       	JDBC, Oracle 10g

Operating Systems	Windows XP

Version Control	SVN



Work Experience :



Working as a Senior Software Engineer in Prokarma Softech Pvt Ltd,
Hyderabad from Sep 2012 to till date.

Worked as a Software Engineer in Polaris Software Lab. Ltd, Hyderabad
from June 2010 to Sep 2012.

PROJECT DETAILS:

  

PROJECT # 5:

 

Project Title	              :	Chapitre

Client			:	Chapitre

Role			: 	Hybris Developer

Environment		:	Hybris 5.2.0.4,Spring MVC,Web services,Quartz,
Oracle10.0, Maven, B2C Accelerator Eclipse Luna and SVN..

Description:

Chapitre web shop is developed with Hybris Accelerator framework. Hybris
is a e-Commerce multichannel platform developed with Java frameworks
Spring MVC, Hibernate and other front end technologies like HTML, XML,
JSTL, Java Script, JSON and Ajax. Using Hybris framework one can create
a web shop and customize it’s behavior.

This project is developed completely in Agile development process. We
have customized Chapitre requirement with Hybris components and
implemented user registration page, shopping cart, product catalogue,
order processing, online payment, shipment of goods to customer home,
etc.

Responsibilities:

1) Implemented my account related functionality (Order History, profile
update and password update)

2) Implemented Order Management functionality and email templates and
creation for customer registration, password forgotten, order
Confirmation, shipment, cancellation, payment successful and payment
unsuccessful.

3) CMS Components for various templates, page navigation,links, menus.

4) Worked on promotion related functionality.

5) Checkout - Cart, Order confirmation and Order summary functionality.

6) Product carousel functionality using Accelerator Frame Work.

7) Impex files creation.

8) Participating in discussions with client and business .

8)  Involved the changes to import Excel data (that includes all the
product, variant, classification and product color) to the Hybris
database

9)Cron jobs creation for data upload.

PROJECT # 4:

 

Project Title	              :	 Action Tracker

Client			:	UPRR (Union Pacific Rail Roads)

Role			: 	Java Developer

Environment		:	Java, Oracle 10g, Jetty, Spring JDBC, Maven,,SVN

Description:

As a wholly-owned subsidiary of Union Pacific, Union Pacific
Distribution Services (UPDS) specializes in the design and execution of
rail-based logistics programs. UPDS provides seamless door-to-door
transportation products by combining the economies of long-haul rail
service with the flexibility of over the road movements..

Action Tracker is a web based application which is used to create
bulletins(Tickets) for the issues. Bulletins are created to ensure that
hot issues are monitored closely, Action Tracker provides  bulletin
boards which provides a history of what actions have been taken
regarding the issues,as well as provides instructions to the subsequent
shifts.

Responsibilities:

1) Developed user interface using Wicket framework, Java, HTML.

2) Implementing the Business logic.

3) Involved in coding of DAO classes using Spring .

PROJECT #3:

 

Project Title	              :            TSD

Client			:	UPRR (Union Pacific Rail Road)

Role			: 	Team Member

Environment		:	JDK1.5, Wicket, Spring AOP, spring JMS, Spring JDBC, 

                                                          Oracle10.0,
Maven, Quartz, XMF, Jibx , Eclipse3.3  and SVN.

Description:

UPDS maintains clear communication with all of its transportation
suppliers regardless of the services they perform.  UPDS developed the
Transportation Supplier Dashboard (TSD) to facilitate two-way
information sharing between UPDS and the carrier.  TSD is used to tender
loads to Intermodal, Carrier Services and carload solutions drayage
carriers.  Drays can also fill out the details as they pertain to a
shipment and report shipment events.  In addition, drays can also
invoice UPDS for the services rendered.

Responsibilities:

1) Interacting with the client to understand the project and finalize
its scope.

2) Bug fixing and maintenance of the product

3) Coordinating with other teams working on the same project

PROJECT #2:

 

Project Title		:	GCTP

Client			:	Citi, US

Role			:	Team Member

Environment		:	Java/J2EE, WebServices, JPA, ExtJs, DWR, IBM DynaCache,
JMS, 		 	      Quartz Scheduler, Oracle, Websphere & Eclipse.

Description:

Wealth Management System is a product that provides Accounting Module
(AM), Asset Ledger (AL) and General Ledger (GL) modules as a part of
GCTP implementation to provide a solution for the Citi Trust Platform.

	AM module will facilitate generating accounting entries for financial
transactions performed in any Product Processors-PP and handing off
these entries on a transaction or a consolidated basis to the General
Ledger. This module will facilitate the definition of Criteria (set of
transaction attributes) with different Posting Rules for which an
accounting entry needs to be generated. An accounting entry will then be
defined for defined Criteria. The accounting entry corresponding to
Criteria will be generated during transaction processing when the values
passed by PP would match a Criteria definition. The accounting entry
generated will be handed off as individual or consolidated entries to
General Ledger either online or as a batch.

A set of queries will also be configured for the user to view the
accounting entries and exceptions that have occurred during generation
or hand-off.

	

Responsibilities:

	

1) Involved in Functional Specifications, Design, Construction, UAT and
Production support.

2) Implemented generic Upload Frame Work, which uploads transaction feed
into the system. 

3) Implemented scheduler component that can trigger a specific task
associated with it at predefined/configured intervals to read
transaction feed files from the configured staging area.

4) Implemented Transformation engine component to transform CSV to java
and then pass route the java object to transaction processing handler.

5) Implemented Evaluator component to perform a basic arithmetic or to
check logical operations.

6) Implemented Audit trial functionality in which  all the data
modifications /additions are tracked and logged in a generic  table.

PROJECT #1:

 

Project Title		:	Customer Relationship Management (CRM)

Client			:	RBS

Role			:	Team Member

Environment		:	Java/J2EE, JPA, Oracle, Web services, Ext JS, XML, JSON,
DWR.

Description:

Customer Relationship Management (CRM) consists of 3 stages: Lead
Capture, Prospect Creation and finally Customer (Relationship) Creation.
An RM is required to actively prospect new potential clients and convert
them into customers of the Bank. It provides Scheduler and Call Reports
which are the tools used by RM and other users for their day-to-day
work, for their scheduling and reporting of meetings. It also provides
facilities for entering Service Requests from customers and these are
then forwarded to the appropriate departments for resolution.

Responsibilities:

Involved in Functional Specifications, Design, Construction.

Development of prototype, Preparation/review the Unit Test Cases.

Design and development of framework.

Design and development of widgets.

Design and development of Rest full Services.

DECLARATION:

I here by declare that the information furnished above is true to the
best my knowledge. I am confident of my ability to work in a group.     
           

											(Kumar)

