Resume

Experience Summary

5.8yearsof total work experience and in product development.

5.2year of domain experience in financial sector (Life Insurance) and
rest in Retail Support and Maintenance.

Currently working as a Senior Software Developerin Accenture Services
Pvt Ltd., India.

I have completed my Bachelors in Technology in Information Technology.

Rich exposure to entire Software Development Life Cycle includinguse
ofagile methodology and Waterfall Model in Product Development.

Worked on Tools like CVS,SVN,JIRA, Scarab-CSC Defect Tracking Tool, RAD
6.0/7.5, Eclipse3.6.2, and STS 3.4.0.

Performance/Tuning Application like Load Runner, Wily, Java Profiler.

Experience of Requirement gathering, designing and implementing.

Goodexperience in coordinating effort with different geographical teams
being at offshore and Onsite locations.

Ability to work individually and as a part of a team;excellent trouble
shooting and problem solving skills. Can swiftly grasp new tools. 

Excellent skills in user coordination and team management.

Technical Skills

Databases	DB2, SQL Server, Oracle 10g/11g

Languages& Frameworks	Java

Spring-- IOC,Web flow and MVC.

J2EE Architecture

JSF 1.2 , 2.0

XML

WAS-Websphere , Apache Tomcat

Hudson

VP\MS(CSC Propriety Tool)

JBoss

SQL

Web Services AXIS 2.0,SOAP

Myfaces- tomahawk



Experience and designation	5  Year and 8 Months& Senior Software
Developer

Business Areas	Life Insurance&

Development /Maintenance



Educational Qualifications

B.TECH. in Information Technology (IT) from NIT BHOPAL , with 7.92 (/10)

HSC fromK.V. School , Guwahati with 69.8%

SSC from K. V.  School, Bhopalwith 76.2%

Project Experience:

Jan 2015 toTill Date.

Project Title	Volkswagen

Client	Germany

Employer	Accenture Services Pvt Ltd.

Description	Volkswagen is a Development + Support Project, related to
the corporateafter Sales Information System(CASIS). Along with DB
Maintenance and development part for Improving the functionalities on
the Presentation and Business layer.

Role	Senior Software Developer

Responsibility	•	Working on Change Request (CR’s), Includes
Requirement Analysis and estimation, design and development.

•	Development of the product related to various artifacts on
Presentation and Business Layer.

•	Involved in designing the architecture for new features.

Technology	Java/j2EE, JSF, JPA, Hibernate , Web Services , Apache My
faces(tomahawk)

Databases	Oracle 11g



Jan 2014 to Dec 2014.

Project Title	csA BPO (GAFG)

Client	CSC Dallas

Employer	Computer Sciences Corp.

Description	

GAFG stands for Global Atlantic Financial Group, the project is from
scratch using Spring + Prime faces + jsf along with JPA2.0 for
connecting to the service layer.

	

Role	Product Developer

Responsibility	Requirement Analysis and estimation.

Working on the enrichment of the product related to various artifacts.

Worked on Build Related Issues, which contains Ant Script for Running
the Build

Involved in designing the architecture for new features.

     Performance Enhancement of the product.

Implementation of design idea and documenting the followed architecture.

Technology	Java/J2EE, JSF, Hibernate ,prime faces, Web Services, 
Spring-Web flow,AWD

Databases	SQL Server 

Awards/Appreciations	Received recognition from Client for good
understanding of the system.





Aug 2013 to Jan 2014.

Project Title	csA BPO 

Client	CSC Dallas

Employer	Computer Sciences Corp.

Description	Customer Service Accelerator (csA) is a call-center based
application which provides support for:

• Common Access Front-End

• Universal Accelerator Desktop

• Policy System Integration

• Customer Contact



Role	Product Developer

Responsibility	Requirement Analysis and estimation.

Working on the enrichment of the product related to various artifacts.

Worked on Build Related Issues, which contains Ant Script for Running
the Build

Involved in designing the architecture for new features.

     Performance Enhancement of the product.

Implementation of design idea and documenting the followed architecture.

Technology 	J2EE Architecture

Java- JSF 

Hibernate



Databases	Oracle, DB2,



Apr 2012 to Aug 2013.

Project Title	L&A Cross Cutting Group (CCG)

Client	CSC Dallas                                                      

Employer	Computer Sciences Corp.

Description	This is a kind of desktop application designed for the
developers. It is majorly divided into two parts UI Editor and Rule
Editor. 

UI Editor is for those who are actually working on any web application.
With the help of this tool one can design java pages, can define the web
service processes that are to be invoked, can add multiple pages to a UI
flow and test them at developer’s end by launching the flow. Also, the
flow generated along with its related artifacts can be deployed to the
location of actual web application. Rule Editor can be used for
configuring various rules (drools/vpms). These rules act as conditions
when generated and included in any other application. These conditions
can also be invoked from a UI Flow as a decision step.

The L&A Cross Cutting Group (CCG) is responsible for the development and
maintenance of the components that are part of the L&A Configuration
Strategy. The components include: 

 1) A configuration workbench for creating products, rules,
calculations, UI views and data transformations.

 2) Content management repository.

 3) A rules execution platform for the invocation of external business
rules and calculations.	

Role	Product Developer

Responsibility	Requirement Analysis and estimation.

Worked on the Jackrabbit and Content Management Issues.

Providing knowledge transfer to team membersOn requirements and their
solutions

Involved in designing the architecture for new features.

     Performance Enhancement of the product.

Implementation of design idea and documenting the followed architecture.



Technology 	Core Java , Spring , jack rabbit

Databases	DB2,FileSystem database



Jan 2010 to Apr 2012.

Project Title	New Business Accelerator-   nbA

Client	CSC Dallas                                                      

Employer	Computer Sciences Corp.

Description	nbA is designed to provide new business solution for Life
Insurance and Annuities. It automates the process from insurance request
to underwriting and finally issuing/declining the request. It provides
end-to-end new business solution that includes integrated administrative
cash management, communications and document management. It is also
capable of supporting multiple products, distribution channels and
administration systems



Role	Product Developer

Responsibility	Development of new Enhancements and nbA Components which
includes 

Discussion with TCs and Technical leads to design, analyze and
understand technical and business Requirements.

Coding and Unit testing of Enhancements.

Code Reviews.

Resolving adhoc technical queries of QAs in Test Plan preparation.

Resolving SPRs (System Problem Requests) and Problem Logs. It involves
analyzing, fixing and documenting problems reported during internal
integration and system testing, as well reported by client.

Member of Performance Engineering Team for nbA Team which includes.

Design Production like Performance Scenario to generate production
simulated load on the system.

Setting up New Environment for Performance Engineering which includes
designing topology of the environment, installation of WAS, deployment
of nbA Application, initial performance tuning of environment.

Load testing.

Fixing Performance Issues.

Worked with End Customers (AXA, ONFS) in fixing their Performance Issues



Technology 	Java/J2EE, JSF, Web Services,Hibernate,AWD,VP\MS,Accelerator
framework.java 1.4

Databases	Oracle, DB2

Awards/Appreciations	Received appreciation e-mails from client, on-site
members of my team as well as from offshore and onshore hostingteam.

Also got COA for completing the Enhancement, before time line.



Achievements:

Got rewards from on-site Leads of different teams for good coordination
and support.

Worked on different projects simultaneously and received appreciation
from all the teams.

Got several Appreciations in emails from Clients, Managers, and Onsite
Coordinators/Team Leads.

Active participation in the Organizational curricular activities like
Samskruti.	

Apart from day to day work related activities played the role of Party
Anchor to keep a healthy work environment. Appreciated from the Senior
Management for the innovative ideas for engaging team members in various
funs and team building activities.

Strengths: 

Excellent coordination with team.

Zeal to learn, proactive and take bottom line responsibility for
assigned tasks.

Quick learner who expends extensive efforts to stay informed about new
technologies with desire to grow in matured and advanced technologies.

I don't have any ego to learn anything even from the youngerones.

Personal Details

Date of Birth	19-Dec-1986

Sex	Male

Nationality	Indian

Marital Status	Single

Present Address	D-75 ,Sainath Colony , Kolar Road ,Bhopal-462042 ,India

Linguistic Abilities	English, Hindi, Bengali, Gujrati.

Passport Number	G6909406

PAN Number	AGXPC9065E



Date:						 Priyatosh Chakravarty

Recommended by GlobalHunt India.		.

Contact: 8527653300

E-mail: recruitment30@globalhunt.in

