  

Name:  Ashish Kumar Sonkar                                              
                        Correspondence Address:                         
                                                 DOB: 06th, April, 1982 
                                                                        
           Ashish Kumar Sonkar

Educational Qualification:                                              
                               Apt #:K2-701

B.Tech (Electronics & Communication Engg.)                              
              Pimple Saudagar,

NIT, Calicut, Kerala.                                                   
                                      Pune,

                                                                        
                    Maharashtra, India

 E-mail Id:   HYPERLINK "mailto:ashishsonkar@gmail.com" 
ashishsonkar@gmail.com                                                  
         Mobile No: 9886023190

                                                                        
                                                   

Experience Summary

Total 8.5 years of experience in leading team, Software development,
design, testing and implementation. Have worked on Core Java/J2EE, Perl,
C technologies, Data structure. Proficient in development of web based
applications using Java/J2EE technologies, performance & tuning JVM and
text processing. Onsite (Qwest, USA) experience as Onshore coordinator
with responsibilities to gather business requirement for release and to
handle UAT.



Education

Degree	Major	Year of passing	Institute	Percentage

B.Tech	Electronics & Communication Engg.	2006	NIT Calicut(formerly REC
Calicut )	61.8



Certification

Sun Certified Java Programmer(SCJP Java version 5)



Jobs

Name of Organization	Designation	Period

Barclays	AVP(Technical Lead)	October 2014-till date

British Telecom	Senior Consultant 	June 2013 – October 2014 

Qwest Telecom Software Services Private Limited	Senior Software Engineer
10-Dec-07 to May 2013



MindTree Consulting Ltd.	Programmer Analyst	03-July-06 to 07-Dec-07



Primary Technical skills

Languages	Java (>2.0), C, Perl.

Web Technologies	Spring, Hibernate, JSP/Servlets, AngularJS AJAX,CSS,
Strut, HTML5,Javascripts, J2EE, Design Patterns, Web Services, XML
Technologies (XML, XSLT), XML Beans, JNI, JMS, Basics of Bus Services
(Tibco Rendezvous), Datastructure,Algorithms.

Tools	Eclipse, ACTIVE PERL Komodo, Ant, Putty, Quality Centre, Build
Forge, CVS,  Dimensions , Calibre  9.1 , Toad

OS	Windows XP, Unix

App Servers	Web Logic 8.1, Tomcat

Design	UML(Methodology)

Databases	Oracle 10g, MySQL



Experience



AVP (Technical Lead) at Barclays PLC October 2014 – Till date.

Project	COLLECTIONS

Collections is a payment capture website for Mortgage defaulters.

Its purpose is to collect Account Info and Card details and store these
in encrypted xml file and send it downstream team for further processing
.

BIRD

                 Barclays Integration Reporting Dashboard is as
dashboard kind of tool.

                  It is used by higher level person of Barclays to
analyze data for various process          across different channel.

Tools and Technologies

	Java/J2EE, Spring, JSP, Eclipse, AngularJS, Maven, Oracle, Highchart,
HTML.



Role and Team size	Gathering business requirement

Designing

Managing Team of size 9.

Development

Helping team with my technical skills





Experience



Software Engineer at Qwest Communication December 2007 - May 2013.

Project	Networx

 Networx QOA is an online service delivery platform to provide an
integrated and a seamless way to order /quote various network services.
It was a mammoth and challenging project where US federal Government
aspired to automate the entire sale and delivery of the various networks
products/services.

The core framework consisted of J2EE struts where extensive use of
Design patterns, Tiles framework and Web services and Bus services were
made. The framework was made more flexible with the approach of
ORAObjects at the back-end.

Tools and Technologies

	Java/J2EE Struts,Spring, JSP/JSTL, EJB, Oracle 9.0, Linux platform,
Ajax, DWR

Quality Centre, Build Forge ,CVS,  Dimensions , Calibre  9.1 , Toad,
Eclipse 3.1 ,                                        

Ant, Putty



Role and Team size	Actively involved in execution of various phases of
Software Development Life Cycle like Requirements gathering, Design, and
Coding and Unit Testing process.

As On-Site Coordinator, I had taken the full ownership of requirement
gathering by coordinating with onsite team. Worked together with
off-shore team and dependant systems in the impact analysis, design,
coding, and Unit testing for two releases.

Conceived & developed complete Multi Order File module for huge orders
using Core JAVA.

Worked on Adapter, Decorator, Builder, State, DAO, Command, Factory,
Singleton, Visitor, Observer Design Patterns.

Optimized the performance of the location manager module by
incorporating AJAX via DWR.

Conceived & developed Save Functionality by incorporating Javascript
across the application.

Improve the critical performance issue of “Contact Page” in Networx
application.

Conceived & developed Auto Type Ahead feature just like in Google
application using JQuery in Networx Application.

Developed the complete interaction of the ordering module with pricing
Bus service.

Designed and developed asynchronous order flow for MOF processing using
JMS. Later on asynchronous processing was inculcated to other
functionalities like order submission.

Proactively involved in fixing and closure of critical defects and
production issues.

Involved in the knowledge transfer among the team members and Business
Management Group. 



Experience



Programmer Analyst at MindTree Consulting July 2007 –December 2007.

Project	CMAP

Development of various text processing and pattern recognition
components for content management platforms using C, java and JNI :

Auto Categorization: Training and automatic classification of documents
into different categories by analyzing word density - using Artificial
intelligence techniques and Bayesian Algorithm.  

EXIF and IPTC data extraction: Extraction of structured text information
from various images available in EXIF and IPTC formats

Document to Text Conversion: extracting English text from documents in
different formats like MS word, RTF, PDF, HTML.

Multi-Faceted search: Given documents marked with certain attributes (
or Tags), multi-faceted search allows users to query and identify
documents having the set of tags and containing the search query as
needed



Tools and Technologies	Java and J2EE, C, JNI, XML, XSLT, Eclipse,
Hibernate, UNIX.

Role and Team size	Design, development and Implementation

Team Size : 6 

Duration: Nov 06 to Date.



Project	AIG – SUNAMERICA

Development of ADMS tool which uses advanced text and pattern
recognition to construct System Mapping of any given Java application by
browsing its source code.

System Mapping of the NaviSys(Policy Administering system dealing with
annuities)Application 

Extending ADMS tool for knowledge management and easy maintenance of
system mapping documentation

Tools and Technologies	Java and J2EE, Perl, Eclipse, Active Perl Komodo



Role and Team size	Design, development and Implementation

Team Size : 9  ,    Implementation - Onsite 

Duration: Aug 06 to Nov 06





B.Tech Project(Coursework Project )

Major Project	Design of algorithm & Implementation of Architecture for
lossless Image Compression using VHDL Language and FPGA Kit.

Mini Project	Implementation of Digital Thermometer using FPGA Kit.



Summer Training

Attended 21 days training on Avionics System in HAL Kanpur.



Awards & Certificate

1. Got Above Expectation appraisal rating in MindTree Consulting Ltd.

2. Played State Level Cricket Tournament

3. Certificate for International Math Competition from Australia.

4. Certificate for District level GK Competition.





Extra Circular Activities

1. Playing Cricket.

2. Reading Journal Magazine

3. Playing computer game (Mostly NFS underground).



Training Attended

TRAINING	About 	Period

1	Java and J2EE	8 Weeks



2	C	2 months

3	XML,XSLT	        3 days

4	Web Application concepts, Programming concepts, debugging and logging.
        1 Week

	5		Business English Communication	       2 Weeks



Ashish Kumar Sonkar  

                                                                      
Page   PAGE  1  of   NUMPAGES  5 

