Srikanth                                             Mobile No:
+919701927745 

Senior	Software Engineer                      E-mail:
raajaraam.srikanth@gmail.com

Career Objective

To associate with a progressive organization that gives scope to apply
my knowledge and skill and to be a part of a team that dynamically works
towards the growth of the organization. 

Professional Summary

5+ years of experience in Design, Development and configuration of
applications using Java SE/ java EE, Compile and Build Technologies.

Experience in developing applications using JDBC, Servlet, JSP,Struts,
Spring (MVC Frame Work), Web Services ,Hibernate and IBATIS.

Experience in developing applications using Tomcat,JBOSS,Weblogic Sever
and My Eclipse, eclipse-rcp.

Experience in MVC Architecture application developments.

Having good knowledge in Servlets, JSP, XML, JSON, Struts and EJB. 

Experience in SWT ,JFACE components

Experience in Compile and Build tools for build automation.

Ability to analyze business requirements and translate them to software
and database designs to meet the business requirements.

Quick Learning, Good analytical and strong inter-personal skills.

Professional Experience

Working as a Senior Software Engineer for Steelwedge Technologies
Private Limited (madhapur), Hyderabad from May 2012 to till date.

Worked as a Software Engineer for SP Software Private Limited
(madhapur), Hyderabad from Oct 2010 to till Mar 2012.

Educational Qualifications

B.Tech (ECE) from N.C.E.T, J.N.T University, Hyderabad.

IT Exposure

Operating Systems		 : Windows NT/2000xp and Linux.

Programming Languages	 : Java.

J2EE Technologies		 : Servlet, JSP and EJB.

ORM Tools                    	 : Hibernate, IBATIS.

Databases			 : Oracle, MS SQL Server.

Web Tools			 : HTML and XML

Web Servers			 : Tomcat, Apache web server

Application Servers	 : Web Logic Sever 10.x, JBOSS5/7.

IDE Tools			 : Eclipse-rcp, My Eclipse.

Frame Work			 : Struts Hibernate, Spring (MVC Frame Work), IBATIS.

Other             		 : JDBC.

Build-Deployment Tools    : Sonar Qube, Clover, ANT, Gradle, SBT and
WLST

Strengths

  Highly capable in team environments.

  Strong technical and good learner.

  Highly motivated, self-driven, flexible and hard working.

Project  Details                                        

	

Project #1

	Title	CSP& TC (Cloud Services Portal and Thick Client)

	Client 	Lenovo, HP, Canon, Monsanto.

Technologies	Struts 2.x, JSP,  log4j, html, AJAX, JQuery, Hibernate 3.x,
Spring 2.x, MS SQL Server 2008, JBOSS 5.x

Duration 	May 12 – To Till Date

Team Size	9



Description: - CSP is a multi-tenant SAAS product, the main aim of the
project is to automatically build and deploy the core product of
Steelwedge to web logic domain by choosing the source attributes from
the provided User Interface.  The UI provides the options to specify
Application Server details to which the product to be deployed, Database
on which the schema should be applied, LDAP properties for
authentication purpose. Thick Client tool is able to create domain in
web logic with the given inputs in the UI, create a empty DB, configure
log4j, configuration for sending mails and LDAP configuration.

Roles & Responsibilities



Received requirements and specifications from the BA team.

Involved in development of Actions, Services and DAO layer of CSP Tool
with Struts, Spring and Hibernate to implement of all client
configuration.

Involved in developing Thick Client tool with Java Components
(SWT,JFACE), ANT and WLST scripts used to deploy application in web
logic and database with respective client specific configuration on the
fly.

Written SOAP web services with CSP tool to consume in Thick Client as
per requirements.

Involved in applying logging using log4j in the application.

Involved in preparing Thick Client software installation process with
micro soft installer(msi).

Project #2

	Title	Sports Betting

	Client 	sportsbetting.ag

Technologies	Spring, IBATIS, Web services, Oracle and JBOSS.

Duration 	Nov 10 – March 12

Team Size	5



Description:- Sportsbetting is the simplest and most popular destination
for sports betting on the Internet with lot of benefits based on bet
types. There is different modules like Sports Book, E-Commerce, Casino,
CSC, Poker. In CSC module customer can register and maintain his betting
history details, deposit and withdrawals are happen based on master card
type and CC in e-commerce module, placing  bets and winning amount is
depend on bet type  these operation developed in sports book module. In
Casino module customer play and win amount  through online games.

Roles & Responsibilities



Involved in developing one of Administration tool is Global Sports Book
New Wager Alert component to report wager betting information.

Involved in implement Administration Tools(Master Controller Panel) in
Sports Book and E-Commerce Modules.

Involved in developing Services API using JAX-WS (Bottom-To-Top
approach) Web service in E-Commerce Module.

 Involved in developing Spring MVC Frame Work, Service Layer,
Persistence Layer integrated with IBATIS ORM frame work.

Involved in preparing unit test cases and manual testing.

Declaración:

                I hereby declare that the information furnished above is
true to the best of my knowledge.

										Srikanth sara

TECHPOINT PROFILE

