CURRICULAMVITAE

VENKAT LACHI

Mobile : +91-90142-58322

Email   : venkatlachi11@gmail.com

Experience Summary : 

Having 3.5 years of experience in developing Server side components
using J2EE technologies

Good knowledge of Object Oriented  Programming concepts. 

Having knowledge on J2EE Design Patterns (MVC, Singleton, DAO, Value
Objects).

Experience in development of object-oriented business applications using
Java, JDBC, Servlets, JSP, Struts, Spring and Hibernate.

Hands-on experience of working in IDEs like Eclipse, NetBeans.

Working Experience with Oracle Database.

Has the motivation to take independent responsibility as well as ability
to contribute and be a productive team player.

Good team member, positive attitude and result oriented Self-motivated,
quick learner, willing to adapt to new challenges & new technologies.

Achievements :  

Got 90% in java certification. (company related)

Got Appreciation letter from Team Lead regarding my work

 Experience Profile : 

Currently working as System Software Engineer for CMC Limited, Hyderabad
from September 2010 to till date.

Academic Profile: 

Graduation in B.Sc Computers from  Nagarjuna University in 2010.

Technical Profile:

Operating Systems		:   Windows XP, Linux

Languages	:   Java, J2EE

Technologies	:   JDBC, Servlets, JSP

FrameWorks	:   Struts , Hibernate, Spring, WebServices

Application Servers	:   Web Sphere

Web Servers	:   Tomcat 6.0.

Java IDEs	:   Eclipse, NetBeans

Databases			:   Oracle 9i, MySQL

Scripting Languages		:   HTML, Java Script, XML, JQuery

Project Profile :  

Project #1    

AP Police Intranet Portal 			                   			 (June 2013 - Till
Date)

Client			  : AP Police, India

Description:

Its an Open source tool, developed by eXO platform, This is the place
where all the related applications are available, its a single sign on,
once we log on to the application we can access any application. We can
develop our own websites and web pages, wiki pages, forums, FAQs, we can
give access permissions to the documents and pages, and this application
contains chat application helps to communicate with others. we have
groups and roles to give permissions.

Roles and Responsibilities:

Involved in Analysis.

Involved in Installation.

Involved in Portlet Development.

Involved in GUI changes.

Involved in Unit Testing.

Project #2    

AP Police Messaging System		                   			 	(May 2012 –June
2013)

Client			  : AP Police, India

Description:

To send a message to the people in the organization, we installed an
Open source Messaging system called Zimbra, created a new domain in
Linux Operating System and  Organization hierarchy of the AP Police and
changed the look and feel of the messaging system.

Roles and Responsibilities:

Involved in Domain Creation

Involved in Installation.

Involved in GUI changes.

Involved in Unit Testing.

Project #3

3. Online Card Activation		                             			(July 2011 -
May 2012)

Client			  : Citi Bank, Singapore

Description:

Debit/Credit card can be activated through online. User can activate his
card in two ways those are Pre-Login card activation and Post-Login card
activation. User has to enter Card Number, Expiry date, Date Of Birth
values and user has registered mobile number to get OTP value.

Roles and Responsibilities:

Involved in Analysis.

Involved in Coding.

Involved in Unit Testing.

Project #4

Paperless Statements/Letters		                    				 (Sept 2010 –
Apr 2011)

Client			  	: Citi Bank, USA

Description:

CITI bank provides an offer to their customers, Enroll into paperless
Statements, then customers not only receive their statements, reports in
email and also some notification alerts are sent to their customers. At
the time of login Paperless notification is displayed, customer can
enroll into that offer.

Roles and Responsibilities:

Involved in Design

Involved in Analysis.

Involved in Coding.

Involved in Unit Testing.

Personal Profile :  

Name                              		: Venkat lachi

Gender				: Male

Father’s Name	               	: sambasiva rao

Date of Birth		               : 11th Nov, 1990

Nationality		               : Indian

Languages Known	               : English, Telugu

Declaration:

I hereby declare that the particulars given above are true to the best
of my knowledge and belief.

Date:

Place:	Hyderabad							   [venkat lachi]

