LAVAKUSH KUMAR SHUKLA

Email: loveshukla143@gmail.com

Mobile:  +91-8860548973

Name	Lavakush Kumar Shukla

Professional Qualifications 	B.Tech From PTU

Total IT Experience(In Years)	4.3 years(Approx.)



Key Skills 

	JAVA, J2EE, SPRING(CORE), HIBERNATE, JSP, ORACLE
10G,11G,VXML,GRXML,Windows 2008, Windows 2003, Windows 7, Windows xp,
Aix.



	Summary

4.3 years’(approx.) experience in software industry, involved in
requirement gathering, system analysis & design, estimations, coding,
project planning.

Experience in UAT, Deployment and Production release/rollout support.

Experience in application development using JAVA, J2EE, SPRING (CORE),
HIBERNATE, JSP.

Hands on experience in database design and development using Oracle 11g,
SQL Developer, Toad.



EXPERIENCE SUMMARY

Genpact Headstrong Capital Markets: Senior Software Engineer, September
2014 – Currently Working.

Infogain India Pvt. Limited: Software Engineer, July 2011 – September
2014



Skill Set

Programming Languages	Proficient in: JAVA, J2EE, SPRING (CORE),
HIBERNATE, JSP, VXML, GRXML.

Database Systems	 MySQL, MongoDB Oracle.

Operating Systems	Windows.

Business Areas/Domains	Telecom, Banking.

Tools	Proficient in: Eclipse, Sql Developer, Toad, Sonar, IBM Remedy.

Familiar with:, Intellicus, Jenkins.

Methodologies	Waterfall, Agile – SCRUM

Project Profile

Furlough Management Solution

Technologies	Java, Spring, Restful Web Services, Angular Js ,CSS3,
HTML5, Java Script

Company	Genpact Headstrong capital markets.

Client	Morgan Stanley Corporation USA.

Role	Senior Developer  

Duration	November 2014 – Till Yet



	Brief Description

FMS (Furlough Management Solution) is a tool designed for Morgan Stanley
Corporation to help them in their one of the initiative taken. Furlough
is certain days of unpaid mandatory leave, which every contingent
employee have to take. FMS helps the people as various hierarchies.

At Contingent Level

Contingent Employee can plan furlough.

Can cancel and again plan. 

Can keep the track of furlough

   Assignment Manager Level(AM),Business Manager Level(BM)

Can easily track all the furlough planned by employees working under
him/her.

Can easily plan furlough for employee if required.

Can cancel the furlough planned

Can check realized, potential and planned furloughs(in terms of monetary
benefit of organization)

   Chief Operating Officer Level(COO)

Can easily track all the furlough planned by employees working under
him/her.

Can easily plan furlough for employee if required.

Can cancel the furlough planned

Can check realized, potential and planned furloughs(in terms of monetary
benefit of organization)

Can check AM and BM wise reports also.

   Administrator Level

Can add the vendors and specify rules for them.

Can set the target for COO, AM, BM for cost saving for a financial year.

Can check overall potential, realized, and opportunity in furlough(For
Cost Cutting and Monetary benefit of Morgan Stanley Corporation).

Contribution & Responsibilities

Requirement understanding.

Developing end to end modules.

Responsible for Build, Release & Deployment.



























Visibility Solution Asset

Technologies	Java, Spring,Hibernate,Mongodb,MySQL,JSON,Restful Web
Services, JQuery mobile, KendoUI, CSS3, HTML5, Java Script

Company	Infogain India Pvt.Ltd.

Client	Various Companies(Product of Infogain)

Role	Developer  

Duration	July 2013 – Present



	Brief Description

AVS provides a way for the Motor Carrier customers to manage terminal
truck and gate appointments. Apart from appointments, AVS provides
equipment status and data sharing capabilities to the entire supply
chain, enabling all members to connect, providing accurate, timely data
and services on a click.

Motor carrier

Schedule appointments with terminals online

Manage Appointments

Vessel schedules and berthing details

Equipment inquiry and Availability information

Role based access with easy management

Terminal

Seamless integration with Terminal Operating System for TOS data,
functions, and calculations

Manage users and roles

Improve service to the trucking community and deliver customer
satisfaction

Less congestion at the terminal gate.

Ease of equipment management



Contribution & Responsibilities

Requirement understanding.

Developing end to end modules and responsive mobile application.

Responsible for Build, Release & Deployment.



Aptra Vision Flex Delegates

Technologies	Flex, Hibernate, Spring, Oracle, Maven, Jenkins

Company	Infogain India Pvt.Ltd.

Client	NCR Corporation ,USA

Role	Developer  

Duration	Jan 2013 – July 2013



	Brief Description

NCR APTRA Vision is multi-vendor self-service ATM management system that
puts operational performance into context with what really counts
consumer experience. With a complete and accurate view of your
self-service network, APTRA Vision will help you to successfully manage
your business and plan for future development. Improved operational
performance does not necessarily create improved consumer experience,
but APTRA Vision’s graphical dashboard unlocks the information needed
to help you optimize both of these key metrics. NCR APTRA Vision
improves network availability and in so doing, drives better consumer
service, attraction and retention therefore improving revenue
generation, while reducing costs and improving ROI.



Contribution & Responsibilities

Requirement analysis.

Developing delegate for components.

Responsible for Build, Release & Deployment.

Responsible for interacting with client and demoing them for acceptance 



Vodafone IVR

Technologies	Aix (UNIX), Java, Pl/Sql, Toad, Sql Developer, Vxml, Grxml.

Client	IBM India Pvt. Ltd.

Duration	July 2012 – Dec 2012

Role	Developer



Brief Description

It was a Vodafone’s IVR project.  Interactive Voice Response is
facility provided by Vodafone to solve the user’s problem on IVR
itself by taking input from user. From IVR user can get information
regarding VAS (Value Added Services), Data plans, Account Balance and
can get agent transfer also.  User’s Input was captured by VXML and
sent to HTTP Server, which was interacting with WAS (Web Sphere
Application Server) and as per input required information was provided
to user.



Contribution & Responsibilities

Performing Unit testing and deploying the package in Development and UAT
environment.

Development.

Coordinate with testing team to resolve the issue related to report
generation.

Analysis of the Change requests, scoping the work.

Uploading prompts and checking D2is.

Doing all activities related to WVR (IVR).





Jira Plugin Development

Technologies	Windows Server 2003, Java/J2EE, Velocity pages, Apache
maven, Html, JBoss, Eclipse, Mysql.

Client	Infogain India Pvt.Ltd

Duration	July 2011-June 2012

Role	Developer



Brief Description

This application was for the purpose of customization of JIRA product
which is basically used for project tracking, and complete software
development life cycle. Customization was covering the following points.

To check the productivity of a project and Individual Team member.

To check the size & variance of project.

To generate the report  of the Project/Team/Individual on the basis of 

Time period. & Releases.

It enabled the project manager to check the above said point about the
project, team and an individual as well.



Contribution & Responsibilities

Involved in understanding requirement.

Constructions(Development)

Bug Fixing.

Deployment on production.



Education:

B.Tech. Computer Sciences 	PTU, Punjab 	                    2011

12th  				          CBSE Board		          2007

10th 				          UP Board		          2005

Personal Information:

Name			: Lavakush Kumar shukla

Gender		: Male

 

Date of Birth		: 30 - 12 – 1990

Phone			: +91-8860548973

Email 			: loveshukla143@gmail.com

Permanent Address: #3366 Sector-37 Chandigarh

Recommended by GlobalHunt India.		.

Contact: 8527653300

E-mail: recruitment30@globalhunt.in

