available

4 people reporting to him

Spring:6 years& current

Hibernate: 6 year& current

Webservices: 6 year&current

Java: 8 years(used indirect rflection)

UML: yes initially worked

Design Patter: drawing flow chart

DB:oracle/sql

16L+shares(19)/22/30days

Summary 

Has 8+ years of experience in Java/J2EE software Design, Development and
Testing.

1 year of experience in Groovy/Grails development.

Have Good knowledge on Agile Software Development life cycle and Tools
(JIRA) involved in this. (Certified Scrum master) 

Worked In major JIRA, confluence, fisheye and bamboo upgrades.

Good Knowledge in Altassian products (Jira, Confluence, Bamboo and
fisheye/Crucible) Developing and Enhancing Altassian Product plugins. 

Good knowledge in Sonar and its plugins to integrate to different
applications( java, PHP etc., )

Good Working Knowledge in Composite ETL tool.

Good knowledge in TDD, application release and deployment cycles.

Good working Knowledge in Nexus Repository Management. 

Developed/enhanced 15-20 altassian products plugins.

Good knowledge in OSGI based applications.

Technical Skills 

Programming Language			:  Java 7.0, Groovy, Python.

 Sun Certified Java Programmer (1.5)               

Technologies Known 	: Java EE

Frame works	                             		: Struts 1.1/2, Hibernate 3,
spring 3 and JPA

Databases                        	: Oracle10G, MSSQL, MYSQL, PostgreSQL
and H2 

 

Application Server				: BEA Web Logic 9.2, Jboss AS 5, tomcat 6,
tcServer.

Version Control Tools	            	: VSS, SVN and GIT

Bug Tracking Tools 				: Bugzilla, JIRA

IDE						: Eclipse

 

Design Tools 	: Rational Software Architect 7.0, Rational Rose

Performance Tool                             	 : JProfiler

Scripting					 : JQuery, XML and Xpath

CI tools 					: Hudson, Bamboo

Code Review Tools 				: Fisheye/Crucible 

Mocking Frameworks			: mocktio 

Metrics Tools 				: Sonar 4.

Educational Qualifications 

M.Tech, Electrical Power Engineering, JNTU Campus, Hyderabad: 2006

Secured 90.24 percentile in GATE-2004.

Projects Experience

Qualcomm Technologies, Inc. Hyderabad, India Programmer Analyst Sr.

December 2011 to till Date 

Project Name: ALM (IWF Integrations)

IWF Integrations enables durable Integrations between different
applications like (JIRA-JIRA,

JIRA-SERVICENOW and JIRA-MENTOR etc. This Integration is done with the
help of JMS Message BUS and REST API.

Technical Details: JMS, Spring-Integrations, Spring Security, AOP,
Drools, Hibernate.

Project Name: ALM (Application life Cycle Management)

This is part of Qualcomm application lifecycle management process. Setup
Atlassian Products (JIRA, Confluence, Fisheye and Bamboo) configure as
needed, Develop new plugins and customize the existing plugins. And also
integrate these application with some of the engineering applications
(testing tools) and to some Reporting tools.

Upgrade the same Applications whenever there is a new version from the
vendor.

Technical Details: Atlassian Plug-in SDK, JIRA, Confluence, Bamboo,
Fisheye, spring, Oracle 11g, Apache Felix OSGI framework. 

Project Name : Alm – Access

As part of Qualcomm application lifecycle management process, we expose
JIRA data through composite ETL tool. In order apply some authorization
rules on these views in composite we developed this application.

Technical Details: Groovy & Grails, Composite, ehCache, spring, spring
security and JPA. TcServer

Project Name:  Wikis(Twiki & Media wiki) migrations to Confluence 

In Qualcomm document are spread across different wiki management system
like Twiki, media wiki and share point. To centralize the documentation
to single wiki like Confluence, we used UWC rules based converter. This
was a very basic tools and we added lot of Regex based rules to convert
the documents property from one wiki to other wiki. 

Technical Details: UWC converter, Jira CLI, Java regular Expressions. 

Project Name: ALM Integration.

In Jira, Project creation is restricted admin users. In order to give
the same access to normal users and ease up the creation process, we
have built this application. In this we made creation configurations in
a central place (who need to be a project Lead, whom to add to different
roles and what are the different schemes etc.). We used Jira Soap
interface to do the respective things in JIRA side.

Qualcomm has different atlassian product instances for different
departments. We centralized project creation process with this. 

We also have admin scheduler jobs configured to sync users/user-groups
between atlassian products and Ldap.

Technical Details: Spring Web Flows, JPA, Quart scheduler, spring,
spring security.

  Project Name: Python Scripting.

As part of some of the altassian tools development and bug fixes,
developed some python scripts to update date in the Jira application
through REST API.

Technical Details: python 

Cambridge Technologies Limited, Hyderabad, India     Senior Software
Engineer

December 30th 2008 – December 2011

Project Name:   smart Shift Saas migration

Saas-Web based portal for SAP migration. This application is used for
doing free analysis for the SAP customers. This application
asynchronously communicates with the smart Tool. This smart tool is
basically rules based engine for SAP migration.   

Technical Details: Spring 3, JPA with hibernate 3, Vaadin, GIT, Maven,
H2 DB, and Tomcat 6.

Project Name:   Pega Cloud Management 

Client          :   Pega Systems

This application is a portal for the managing cloud instances of the
pega application machines. 

Technical Details: Struts 2, JQuery, Maven, Tomcat 6, SVN, MYSQL.

Project Name  :   CBMS/RMDV – JBOSS Migration 

Client            :   Summit Energy, USA

Summit Energy is one of the major energy brokers in the United States of
America. He does this Business through an Application called CBMS/RMDV
(RMDV one smaller part of the CBMS).currently this Application is
running in Oracle’s OC4J server. Because of the Licensing issues
Summit wants to migration JBOSS AS server which is a Open Source Server.
This project is to migrate all the modules (CBMS, CBMS5, CBMS7, and
CBMS9) into JBOSS Application server with an optimal effort. 

Technical Details: Struts 1.1, Ant, Jboss5.0, SVN, MS SQL server,
Bugzilla, EJB (Command beans), SSL Certificate installation.

Project Name:   Image Migration – CBMS

		Client              :   Summit Energy, USA

Summit Energy is one of the major energy brokers in the United States of
America. He does this Business through an Application called CBMS. In
this Application currently images (scanned invoices) related application
are storing in the Data base. Because of the storage constraints Summit
wants to store all those images in the folder structure. This Project is
to Analyze, Design and modifies the code in a optimal way so that images
will get stored in the folder structure andretrival also should happen
smooth.         

Technical Details: Struts 1.1, Ant, Jboss5.0, SVN, MS SQL server,
Bugzilla, EJB (Command beans).

Project Name:   Other Service Tracking – CBMS

	        Client              :   Summit Energy, USA	

Summit Energy is one of the major energy brokers in the United States of
America. He does this Business through an Application called CBMS.In
this Application currently deals mainly with Electric Power and Natural
Gas. And also All the module are tracked only for the Electric power and
Natural Gas. Now Summit wants Extend the entire module to work same war
for the other fuels also. And also wants track all the commodities in
different levels (Site/Account). This project is to extend all the
existing functionality to other new Alternate fuels (water, kerosene,
etc ..,) also.

Technical Details: Struts 1.1, Ant, Jboss5.0, SVN, MS SQL server,
Bugzilla, EJB (Command beans),

Hexaware Technologies Ltd., Chennai, India     Senior Software Engineer

October 30th 2006 – December 2008

Project Name:   Aircore - Ticketing 

The Aircore Ticketing Application is to provide a higher level of
convenience and value to airlines and travelers. It provides the latest
in automation for the issuance of ticket documents (paper, electronic,
manual), value documents (MCOs, EBTs, PTAs, Vouchers etc.) and related
functions. In the past, paper tickets were required for air travel. 
Customers purchased paper tickets from airline personnel directly or
through a travel agent.  Today, customers may ticket themselves by
using kiosks at the airport or by purchasing tickets online using
personal computers.  Travelers can go paperless with e-tickets or with
other ticketless methods.  The evolving automation is changing the way
tickets and value documents are handled for travel.

Technical Details: Weblogic 9.2, JSP, EJB2.0, JDBC, Oracle 10g, RSA 7.0,


WebSphere MQ 6.0, Stax Parser, Jprofiler.

  

Project Name:   AIRCORE- Data Migration

		Client              :  Unisys, USA	 

An airline that installs AirCore BOOKING for its Reservation system will
require transferring their existing PNR data to Aircore BOOKING. This
will allow the airline to continue its business seamlessly using the
AirCore BOOKING system as its reservation system. This is a process of
migrating PNR data from the external system to AirCore BOOKING. The XML
file/message containing the PNR data of an external system must conform
to an XML schema defined for AirCore BOOKING. The PNR data migrated
includes information about booking, segments, customer, services, seat
allocation, ticket, fare, ticketing arrangements, remarks, hotel, car
rental, auxiliary services (air taxi, surface transportation, and tour),
forms of payment, contacts, and forms of identification.

Technical Details: Weblogic 9.2, JSP, EJB2.0, JDBC, Oracle 10g, RSA 7.0,


WebSphere MQ 6.0, Stax Parser, Jprofiler.

Personal Information:

Passport and VISA details: 

	

Passport No:  E1294319.

                       Exp Date:  06-MAR-2012

  Stamping Details: L1B VISA (Hexaware Technologies: USA). 

			

		      : B1 VISA (Germany)

Permanent Address:

	Gangadhar M,

S/O M.Shankaraiah,

Shivalayam Street, 

(Mdl &vill)Ramannapet,

(Dist) Nalgonda, 

Andhrapradesh,

PIN no: 508113.

Contact Details :

Mobile: 91+ 9652244566

  HYPERLINK "mailto:gangadharonweb@gmail.com"  gangadharonweb@gmail.com 
	

GANGADHAR MAMILLAPALLI

Qualcomm Technologies, Inc.

