Alok Kumar

B.Tech – Computer Science and Engineering

Mail-Id: meetaloksngh@gmail.com  Mobile: +91-9590649389

Current Employer: HCL Infosystems Ltd.

Position : Software Engineer

Profile	

To obtain responsible and challenging position  and improve my technical
skills which will be utilized fully to achieve     growth of the company
and enhance my potential.

Key Skills

Proficient or familiar with a vast array of programming languages,
concepts and technologies including:

Technologies: 

Java

JSP

Servlet

Struts

Spring IOC/MVC/AOP

Web Services (REST/SOAP)

Hibernate

JDBC

Java Script

MULE

MySql 

Oracle

Tomcat and JBOSS

Basic idea about Derby DB & JDBM

Operating Systems:

Windows 

Linux  (Ubuntu )

Tools :

Eclipse

SQL YOG

DB Visualizer 

Maven

SQL Developer etc

Educational Qualifications

B.Tech(CSE)

	Bengal Institue of  Technology and Management(WBUT)	  -    June, 2012

 Employment Details

HCL Infosystems Ltd. ,Bangalore(June 2014 to Present)

Designation:  Software Engineer

Technologies worked on: Java,Spring (IOC/MVC),Hibernate,Web
Services,Oracle SQL, Mysql.

Projects worked on: 

UIDAI- Aadhar project (Unique Id for every citizen of India)

ViMAP Services. ,(September 2012 to June 14)

 Designation:  Software Engineer

Technologies worked on: Java,Struts,Spring IOC/MVC ,Hibernate, Oracle
SQL, Mysql, 

Projects worked on: 

ITMS (Integrated Training Management System.) 

OTC  (Online Test Center.)

Project Details 

Project#1 :                UIDAI- Aadhar Project

Role: 	                        Team Member

Team Size:	         9

Duration:	          June 2014 to Present.

Environment:           Java,Spring,Web Services(REST),TOMCAT, Eclipse.

Description: 

                         The motive of the project is to provide a
unique ID (called Aadhar number or UID) to every citizen of India that
can be used to provide the authenticity of that citizen. Biometric
details are also captured for Authentication purposes. This is an Indian
government project. 

Project Modules

Enrolment Client – Creates the packet for every citizen having
Biometric and Demographic Details.

ClientIntegrationServer-Processing the request to Authentication.

Enrolment Server – Actual processing of the Packet is done here for
storage, validation etc.

Authentication Server- Application that is responsible for providing
authentication services to various firms and organizations.

Portals – The portal team responsible for developing web portals for
various configuration and service.

Reports – The purpose of this module is to generate reports of various
stages in Aadhar project.

FI and E-Kyc – This module is for the linking of an existing account
or opening of an AADHAAR-enabled bank account for a resident who opted
during the enrolment. Know Your Customer (KYC) is for customer
identification process.Using this KYC API, agencies can conduct
electronic identity verification using biometrics.

Key Role: Application Development

Roles and Responsibilities:

Work closely with other team members during coding 

Worked and handled exceptions occurred in multiple servers concurrently.

Code done on Spring and Created Hibernate mapping files.

Working on production issues whenever they occur.

Worked on linux environment.

	

Project#2 :             Integrated Training Management System 

Role: 	                       Team Member

Team Size:	        10

Duration:	         July 2013 to June 2014.

Environment:          Java, JSP, Spring MVC, Hibernate, Oracle, JBOSS,
Eclipse.

Description:

         Integrated Training Management System which is a product
initiated by ViMap Services for automating the training process of a
training centers across India. It has three types of users like Admin,
Employee and Student. Admin is a person who is controlling the entire
application. There are many types of Employee like Faculty, Accountant,
Manager, Director, and Education councilor. Faculty is responsible for
uploading the schedule, updating daily covered topics, uploading the
assignments, answering the questions posted by the student etc. Manager
is responsible for scheduling the batch, assigning batch to the faculty,
tracking the batch schedule etc. Education councilor is responsible for
updating daily enquiries, tracking the enquiring, doing the registration
etc. Admin is allowed for Maintaining Users. Admin can add users
(Employee/Student), update users (Employee/Student) and change
permissions of the users, resetting the passwords of the users etc.

Roles and Responsibilities:

Written JSPs and Controller Classes as per the Requirement.

Implemented Commands and their Validations. 

Implemented Page layouts using Tiles Framework.

Written Spring Service Interfaces and their implementations.

Written Spring DAOs and their implementations with Hibernate.

Written Hibernate Mappings.

Project #3:	            Online Test Center.

Client:	            In House. 

Team Size:	            5

Role:	            Team Member.

Duration:	           September 2012 to July 2013.

Environment:	       Java, JSP, Struts, JDBC, MySQL, Tomcat, Eclipse.

Description:

                  Online Test Center has three types of users like
Admin, Author and Examinee. Admin is a person how are taking the all
controls for this application. Author is a person how is having domain
knowledge. He will prepare questions under each topic and also answers
for those questions. Examinee is a person’s how came to tack our
online exam through intranet or internet. 

                              Admin is allowed for Maintain User,
Maintain Results, Maintain Topics, and Maintain Questions. Through the
User module he can add users delete users and change permissions of the
users like he can give admin permissions or author permissions also
examinee permissions. And he is allowed to change the passwords of the
users. Author is allowed to maintain Topics, Questions, and Results and
also he can update his profile.  Examinee is allowed only to tack exam.
Whenever he logon to OTC system we will give the topic list. He can
select any one of the topic form the list and click Tack Exam link.

Roles and Responsibilities:

Designed JSP’s as per the Requirement.

Implemented Action Classes.

Implemented Form Beans and their Validations.

Updated Struts configuration file, Validation and tiles xml document.

Written DAO’s and their implementations With JDBC.

Strength

Hard working

Good catching power

Flexibility

Personal Information

        Date of Birth:		5-Feb-1990

        Father’s name:		Mr. Ashok Kumar Singh

        Sex:				Male

        Nationality:			Indian

        Marital Status:		Single

        Linguistic Proficiency:	English, Hindi

(Alok Kumar)

