RESUME

Yuva Kumar .P	– UI/ UX Design Lead

	G-1, Ruby Enclave, Kulakarai Street 		Voice: +91-98415 70819 Email:bizdez7@gmail.com

	West Tambaram, Chennai – 45, India.		LinkedIn: http://in.linkedin.com/in/yuvap





Profile

Summary

Hands-on User Experience Design Leader with 13+ years creating innovative, large-scale, interactive solutions in Web and Mobile. 

Effective people manager and accomplished individual contributor with diverse experience in business consulting, healthcare and financial services. 

Deep expertise with user-centric processes combined with technical aptitude, creativity and business acumen. 

Quick high-level thinker with acute attention to detail. 

Consistently meets business objectives by designing compelling experiences that optimize user engagement.

Consistent in delivering online sales funnel for organization business verticals.



		Core Competencies



Leadership Skills

Client Relationships

User Experience Strategy

Information Architecture

Interaction Design

Inside Sales

Interface Design

Mobile Interface Design

Rich Internet Applications

Product Management

Search Engine Optimization

Search Engine Marketing

Social Media Marketing

User Research








Experience

Salzer Technologies Limited, Chennai.	UI/ UX Lead Engineer: Sep 2013 – Till Date

Lead the Design team in implementing UX methodologies across platforms and technologies.

Part of the team to reach the finals of “Microsoft Code for Honor – 2014” Competition 

Led effort to redesign firm’s website using iterative, user-centric process involving multiple information architects, visual designers and web developers

Managed High profile Search Engine Marketing for portals belonging to the Organization

Partnering with customers, senior leaders, product managers and development teams to implement user-centric design processes and innovative digital solutions

Managed portfolio of user experience (UX) design projects, overseeing resources and vendor teams, ensuring quality user experiences

Implemented Online Sales and Marketing strategies and improved ROI



First Page Software Services, Chennai.	UI/ UX Design Lead: Aug 2012 – Till Date

Partnering with customers, senior leaders, product managers and development teams to implement user-centric design processes and innovative digital solutions

Managed portfolio of user experience (UX) design projects, overseeing resources and vendor teams, ensuring quality user experiences



Fixity Technologies LLC,	Chennai.	UI/UX – Design Lead. 2005 — July 2012   

Partnering with customers, senior leaders, product managers and development teams to implement user-centric design processes and innovative digital solutions.

Managed portfolio of user experience (UX) design projects, overseeing contract resources and vendor teams, ensuring quality user experiences

Increased traffic by 60%+ to corporate communications portal through redesign, enabling content aggregation.

Championed user research including site analytics, surveys, polls, one-on-one interviews, focus groups and usability testing to inform decisions and strategies.

Created iPhone, iPad and Android friendly mobile versions of several transactional, communication and collaboration sites.

Managed High profile Search Engine Marketing for several companies including Zuari, VenkatPrabhu and other Movie Websites.

Derived various viral marketing plans to boost movie website, new product launches and events.











Vectone Group, Chennai.	Design Lead. 2004 — 2005   

Managed and led teams of UX designers and developers, including dedicated off-shore resources, to successfully deliver user interface designs and functioning HTML prototypes for several complex, global business applications

Managed all activities related to production of existing web site including establishing procedures and workflows and managing team of designers and developers.	

Managed Content for 12 television channel websites run by the company, with consistent design feeds and graphical interface changes.

SatvatInfosol, Chennai.		Interactive CD-ROM Designer, 2002 — 2004   

Designed 2D drawings and sketches for interactive CD-ROM’s targeted for kids.

Developed 3D Animations for presentation on CD-ROM

Created Map Drawings for a National Level Tower Network mapping project for BSNL.



Education

D.G.Vaishnav Arts & Science College,Chennai					2000
Bachelor of Science,Computer Science

Arena Multimedia, Anna Nagar, Chennai					2001
Diploma in Advanced Multimedia


Technical Skills

  

Design Tools: Adobe Acrobat, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, Corel Suite, Illustrator and Photoshop; Office and Project, 3D & 2D Software’s, Audio & Video Editing Software’sand others

Technical Acumen: AJAX, CSS3, Ext Js, Angular Js, DHTML,HTML5, iOS,JavaScript, JQuery,SVN,XHTML, and XML 

Few of my works

www.bbb.org – UX (Search)

www.afge.com – UX (Navigation)

http://www.calamitygym.com – Branding, User Interface, User Experience, Mobile App design, SEO

http://www.salzertechnologies.com – Branding, User Interface, User Experience

http://www.sanofi.com – User Interface, User Experience

http://www.unitedscrubs.com – User Interface, User Experience

http://www.hedefotel.com – User Interface, User Experience

http://www.iphoneradio.eu – User Interface, User Experience

http://www.kiddsfun.gr– User Interface