RAMA SASTRY JONNALAGADDA

E-mail: ramasastryj@yahoo.co.in	

Mobile: +91-9848018050

Res: +9140 - 65986391

Summary

14 years experience in software industry.

Excellent experience in Development/Maintenance (extensively Java, J2EE
technologies) and Production Support projects. 

Creative design, problem solving and analytical talents combined with
development and management experience, structured functional skills and
technology savvy.

Functional expertise over Private Banking, Global Markets Operations &
Consumer Banking lines of business.

Possess good understanding of various financial products like Equities,
Derivatives and Fixed Income etc

Worked with major banking clients: Bank Of America, Wells Fargo,
Citigroup Private Banking and American Express

Thorough knowledge of SDLC Management, Process Management and good
experience in People Management

Proven multi-tasking capabilities with strong ability to plan prioritize
and manage complex projects under aggressive timelines.

Strong leadership talents, “team player”, attitude and spirits, and
the natural ability to establish consensus among cross functional lines.

Keen instincts to quickly effect change and improvement – with key
expertise in visualizing, aligning organizational priorities to the
teams and executing business process reengineering and development

Managing multiple teams including strategic partners (TCS & Infosys) of
size 25+ that support various applications with diversified technologies

Managing Integrated Service delivery – Responsible for whole offshore
delivery, Strategic Partner Governance

Possess overseas (USA and Singapore) work experience. 

Achievements 

Global recognition awards (GOLD, Bronze) for excellence in performance
at Bank Of America

As part of Org Initiatives, performed EDGE Coordinator role. Drove
knowlEDGE sharing sessions to Global Operations Technology teams across
3 locations (Hyderabad, Mumbai & Chennai). 

Recognitions in Cognizant Technologies Solutions and Polaris Software
Lab for excellence in performance as technology specialist.

Employment Chronicle

Associated with BA Continuum India Pvt Ltd (A non Bank Subsidiary of
Bank Of America), Hyderabad as Manager for ITS since September 2008

Was associated with Cognizant Technologies Solutions India Pvt Ltd,
Hyderabad as Senior Associate (Team Lead) between Jan’ 07 - Aug’ 08

Was associated with Polaris Software Lab Limited, Hyderabad as Team Lead
between Feb’ 04 - Dec’ 06

Was associated with Exensys Software Solutions (Formerly known as Holool
E-Business Private Limited), Hyderabad as Project Lead between June’
01 - Feb’ 04

Was associated with Citation Softech Ltd, Hyderabad as Software Engineer
between May’ 2000 - May’ 01  

Education

Master of Computer Applications – 1999, Osmania University, Hyderabad

Technical Competency

Technologies	Java, J2EE, Webservices, Struts, Springs, Hibernate, JSF,
XML, XMLBeans, Oracle, SQL Server

Servers	WebLogic, WebSphere

Configuration tool	MS VSS, PVCS, WinCvs, Perforce

Production Monitoring Tools	Introscope, Splunk, Tealeaf

Design Tools	IBM Rational Rose, MS-Visio

Project Management Tools	MPP

Projects & Experience Summary

BA Continuum India Pvt Ltd (A non bank subsidiary of Bank Of America)   
                     Sep’ 08 – Till Date

Accomplishments

Performed Tech Manager Role.

Visited New York, USA for Knowledge Transfer, System Study, LoB
Connects, Understand Processes, Collaboration with Strategic Partners at
stateside etc

Worked on Java, J2EE Development and Support projects (Level 3)

Managed Integrated Service delivery – Responsible for whole offshore
delivery.  

Governance of offshore teams of size 25+ including Strategic Partners
(TCS & Infosys) teams

Managed synergies with India Operation’s users, LOB Partners, Cross
Teams (Middleware, Midrange, Database etc), Strategic Partners (TCS &
Infosys)

Associate developments, performance appraisals, team mentoring etc 

Client / LOB Communications, Dashboard, Reporting etc for project
tracking and senior management updates

Automations & Process Improvements

Certified in ITIL V3

Well recognized and rewarded GOLD, BRONZE Awards for excellence in
performance.

Projects	Client	Technologies	Role	Responsibilities

Trade Processing Services (TPS)	Bank of America, U.S.A	JDK1.4, J2EE,
Oracle 9i, Weblogic 8.1, Sun Solaris	Tech Manager	Involved in Coding,
Code Reviews, Production Fixes etc

Collaboration with Strategic Partners - Infosys

Visited USA on a business trip for knowledge transfer, system study of
Single Broker Dealer project, meetings with LoB teams

Team mentoring, SDLC Management, Process Management

Consolidated Data Repository (CDR)	Bank of America, U.S.A	JDK1.5, JMS,
XmlBeans, SQL Server, Sun Solaris	Tech Manager	Provided
architecture/design solutions, built Java packages,  

Managed Java deliverables in CDR

Team Mentoring, SDLC Management, Process Management

Client Reference Data 

(8 applications)	Bank of America, U.S.A	Maintenance & Support	Tech
Manager	Managed the teams (Level 3) for Client Reference Data

Manager-On-Duty (SPOC) for EMEA & APAC users for any user escalations,
urgent queries etc.

Incident/Problem Management

Strategic partners Collaboration

Reporting & Dashboard for project tracking and SLT Updates

Online Banking	Bank of America, U.S.A	Maintenance & Support	Tech Manager
Managed the teams (Level 3) for eCommerce Suite of Applications (Secure
& Unsecure Applications)

Integrated Service Delivery – Responsible for offshore Delivery

Incident/Problem Management

Reporting & Dashboard for project tracking and SLT Updates

Project Descriptions

Trade Processing Services 

TPS is a common solution for publishing a trade data from a single
source, centralized reference data and automated exception management
etc. It has mainly three subsystems like, TFM – Trade Flow Manager,
TMM – Trade Match Manager and TEM – Trade Exception Manager. TFM is
crux of the TPS system. It provides an automated booking interface for
Fixed Income products. It links the front office systems to the back
office systems.  A variety of business units rely on TFM to correctly
route trades from their front office systems to the appropriate back
office system.

Consolidated Data Repository

CDR is a common platform to store Trade data, Security reference data,
and Client data etc. The data is stored for downstream systems of CDR
for further processing of trades settlements, reconciliation of trades,
reporting etc. It has various interfaces with PME, ECN, ICI (IRep
service), RDP, Oracle BUCS etc. Java interfaces are built for PME, ECN
and IRep functions.

Client Reference Data

Client Reference Data (CRD) applications deal with setup of client
accounts and the maintenance of the same. CRD is a suite of 8
applications – NIGEL, NEWS, GDS, CSP, RDS Online, BookMap, IPS/GDI,
and EDS Search. Out of these, NIGEL/NEWS/IPS applications are very
critical for Operations Technology Line Of Business. It is mainly
setting up of relationships between counterparties and linking them to
accounts and profiles etc. These clients’ accounts data would
eventually be flown to all trading applications to allocate the trades
to corresponding accounts. These applications mainly fall into the scope
of post sales and pre trade activities.

Online Banking

eCommerce L3 process is mainly a Level 3 function of Consumer & Small
Banking Business (C&SBB). The function covers maintenance and support of
authenticated and unauthenticated suite of applications of eCommerce
business like Online Banking, Desktop Banking, Mobile Banking,
BankAmeriDeals, DotCom etc.

Scope of work :

Incident Management - Restore Sev1/Sev2/Sev3 Issues, Triage Production
Issues

Problem Management – Root Cause Analysis, Provide Permanent
Resolutions

Release Support

Proactive/Reactive/Investigative Monitoring



Cognizant Technologies Solutions (CMM Level 5 company)                  
                                         Jan’ 07 - Aug’ 08

Accomplishments

Performed Tech Lead Role. 

Worked with few major clients - Wells Fargo Bank USA; American Express
USA; Arbitron (Media Domain) USA

Worked on all J2EE development - fixed bid projects. Took complete
ownership in building the project from scratch

Proposed and implemented architecture/design solutions for all
development projects.

Lead the team of size 12.

Client Communications, Reporting etc 

Received appreciation and recognition for CDF project in Wells Fargo

Polaris Software Lab Limited (SEI CMMI Level 5 company)                 
                                   Feb’ 04 - Dec’ 06

Accomplishments

Worked with Citigroup Private Banking, Singapore

Worked in Singapore as Onsite Coordinator

Gained knowledge in banking domain.

Project Lead. Lead medium size teams (around 5 member team). 

Project Description

OASIS, (Credit Approval and Collateral Monitoring System)

Citigroup Private Banking, Singapore

Credit Approval and Collateral Monitoring System assesses and sanctions
the credit applications of Citigroup Private Banking clients (High
Net-worth Clients), offering customized credit avenues. The
customization of loan categories, guarantors and collateral information
is handled by Credit Approval System module of OASIS. The concentration
of credit exposures against the collaterals and risks involved for bank
at Country, Bank, Branch and Client levels are monitored by Collateral
Monitoring System module. This module gives the risk information to
Credit Head for periodical assessment and review of these clients.



Exensys Software Solutions (Formerly known as Holool E-Business Pvt Ltd)
                              June’ 01 - Feb’ 04

Accomplishments

Worked with Middle East Clients, Saudi Arabia and Commercial Taxes
Department, Govt of Andhra Pradesh, India

Gained knowledge in building J2EE applications.

Project Lead. Lead medium size teams (around 2 member team).

Citation Softech Limited                                                
                                                    May’ 2000 - May’
01  

Accomplishments

Learned Java and J2EE technologies. Worked on Small Java based
applications

Acquired Sun Certified Java Professional Certification from Sun
Microsystems

 PAGE   1  of 4   

Rama Sastry Jonnalagadda  

