AMIT KHANDELWAL
E-Mail Id: - amitkhandelwal0887@gmail.com
Cell:-08886890011
Current location: - Hyderabad
Current Company: - Amazon.com
Objective:
Looking for opportunities to design and develop challenging software projects in a good product
Based company.
Profile Summary:
3.5 years of experience in product development (designing, coding, debugging, bug fixing, testing and
supporting the system) .currently working in Amazon.com as a programmer analyst in Vendorpayments team. Responsible for building/enhancing web-service for vendor returns Application.
Previously worked in product development team of Infosys banking product Finacle. Actively
involved in the recruiting technical talent for Amazon and mentoring the new joiners in the team.
Skill Summary :
OS/Programming/Coding /Tools skills:
Expert in Data structures, Algorithm design, problem-solving and coding in C and Core JAVA.
Intermediate level experience in PHP,MYSQL, RDBMS, JavaScript, HTML, Spring and hibernate
framework,
Coding in C/C++ language using HP-UX flavor of Unix.
Created internal website for team using the PHP and MYSQL in Infosys and college.
Domain expertise :

1. Good knowledge of finance domain. Modules on which I worked on are payment system,
loan, and collateral and liquidity management system.
2. Gained Technical as well as functional knowledge about the complete process of vendor
payments in Amazon.
Project/Work Details [Amazon.com] feb-2013 to current
Vendor-Returns Application( Java using spring and hibernate) :Involving in the enhancement and development of Vendor-Receivable web-Service. This Web-service
is used by Self-service tool of vendor i.e. Vendor-Central as well as other development team of
Amazon. I developed some new functions for the service which includes adding new criteria to fetch
the invoices on website, as well as enhanced existing functions to improve the performance of service.
Banking-module :Enhanced banking module, which allows vendor to enter their banking information without disclosing
their sensitive information to anybody. Did coding for front-end, back-end and database. Worked as a
full-stack web-developer and developed this N-tier web-application. Technologies used in projects are
Java, HTML, JavaScript, spring, hibernate.

Infosys Limited :- Aug’10 to Feb’12
Loan-processing system :- Nov’12 to Jan’13
Redesigned the part of the loan processing engine, which is used for providing loans against
customer’s accounts. One customer can have multiple and multi-type accounts on which he can take
the loan. In previous system, information about user’s account is fetched and shown one at a time.
While new system menu can process and display summary of all these accounts together. It saved the
user’s time and improves the execution complexity. I did complete coding for the back-end designing
(C, data-structure, Database) part of this module and used Link list for providing this functionality.
Past Projects:- (from July’11 to Nov’12 )
1. Designed and coded a complete new interface for getting and processing the details of
nominees for a particular customer. This interface will be incorporated in multiple banking
modules. I handled both the Front-end and Back-end part of this interface. I have created new
DB tables to store the information and wrote functions for validation, inserting, fetching and
modification of the record. As one customer can have multiple nominee hence to implement
this, link list was used both at the Front-end and Back-end.
2. Added various new fields in collateral module to capture information about different collateral
types. Added code for validation and processing both in front-end and back-end.
3. Implemented a report formation based on the customer id. It takes customer id in front-end and
prepares the report in which all the collaterals lodge by the user are displayed.
4. Enhanced the existing field searcher by adding one more filter criteria. For this, added field on
front-end page and a query on the back-end.
5. To reduce the no of wrong inputs, added one informative field which provides information that
how much amount is available for the customer so customer can spend only less amount hence
prevent unnecessary error thrown by back-end.
Infosys training:- (from Aug’10 to march’11)
1. Completed training in C/C++, RDBMS, J2EE, SE and other subjects with ‘A’ grade in Dec.
2011.
2. Had training for Finacle from Jan’11 to March’11 in which both the Front-end and Back-end of
Finacle were taught.
3. Gained good knowledge about the Back-end of Finacle, which is in the C/C++.
Educational Background :Degree
Institute
Year
Percentage
1. B.E. [I.T.]
M.B.M. Engineering College, 2010
72.60 %
Jodhpur
2. Senior
M. H. S. Jaipur, Rajasthan
2005
75.23%
Secondary
3. Secondary
T. V. B. Jaipur, Rajasthan
2003
76.33 %

* Got a merit based scholarship in the 3rd year and final year.
* Got Honors Degree in Engineering.
* Passed Out from the oldest and Government engineering college of Rajasthan state.
* was in top-5 student of my department .

