From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience)
the following technologies?  

Hibernate                           
                  - 
36months                                
                

Spring                  
                                  -  

Web
Services                                
        - 
3years                                 
               

Core
Java                                  
             -  6years

Design
Patterns                                
    -    

UML
design                                 
          -    6months

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)                    -   
Maven/Ant   

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools
etc.]

IBM Application server, tomcat

Ok to work for start up

Code:   70%    design:30%

Vivek Gupta 								

                  Curriculum Vitae

                       			

Mobile: +91-9010889024

Email:   HYPERLINK "mailto:vivek.guptasam@gmail.com" 
vivek.guptasam@gmail.com 

Hyderabad (A.P.)

OBJECTIVE

An accomplished software engineer specializing in object-oriented design
and analysis with extensive experience in the full life cycle of
software design process including requirement definition, prototyping,
proof of concept, design, interface implementation, testing, and
maintenance.

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY

SUN CERTIFIED (1.5) PROGRAMMER/JAVA 2 PLATEFORM.

Having 5.8 yrs of Java/j2ee Exp with Wipro technologies, VIT, Techshot
Pvt.Ltd, GVG Bytes Pvt ltd.

Working for Citi Bank project (ESMS and ESMS-BPM) as SSE.

Playing a role of Code Construction & Retrofitting, version control &
Build through RTC, test Cases Execution, Defect analysis Quality center
update as per daily basis.

Worked for Citi Bank RUSA (RAINBOW) Country as SSE since Sep 2011 to Jan
2013.

Played a key role as BAU for RUSA ECRC project production defect
analysis, Code fixed, Enhancement, end user action, Web Service testing
with SOAP, version control with clear case.

Worked VIT Internal Project for Excel Reporting System for all activity.
Used POI jar and technique to fill up calculated data in to pre-defined
template sheet and available as per login user.

Worked for Techshot Imagine Pvt Ltd as Lead Engineer.

Worked for Elucit S/w Service at Noida.

Worked for NIC & played Developer role in project PPAC.

EDUCATION

Degree/HSC/SSC

	University	Year of passing



MCA	U.P.T.U	2007

BCA	M.C.R.P.V	2003



EMPLOYMENT

Organization

	Designation	Duration

	Place

Wipro Technologies	SSE	6’th Feb 20013 to till date	Hyderabad

VIT	SSE	22’nd Aug 20011l to 5’thFeb 2013	Hyderabad

Tech shot Pvt Ltd	Lead	Feb 2009 to 14’th Aug 2011	Jabalpur

Elucit S/w Service	Developer	Feb 2008 to Sep 2008	Noida

GVG Bytes Pvt Ltd	Developer	Jan 2007 to Dec 2007	New Delhi



TECHNICAL EXPERTIES 

Language 	Java

Frameworks	java (Collection), j2ee, struts, WPF (6.5)

Pattern	MVC 2

Technology	java beans, jsp, Servlet, Struts, JPA2.0, Hibernate, jquery,
Ajax

Relational DB	MYSQL 5.x, Oracle 10G

Report Tools	Crystal Reports, Birt Reports, and Excel reporting with
POI.

Web Server	Apache Tomcat 7.x

Version Control	RTC ,Clear case, SVN

Linux Host	SSH techia

XML Technique	DOM, SAX parser

Application Server	IBM application server

Design Pattern	Singleton , Factory , MVC, DTO, DAO



	

PROJECT:

1	Project Name:

E-BPMs (Eclipse BPM Services )

Client	Citi Bank 

Organization	Wipro Technologies

Duration	     April 2014 to Till Date

Team Size	8

Component	 Portal

Environment with Skill Version	 Jsp, Jquery, DOM Parser, Java Script, 
Java-Json , BW tool



Project Description:

	       Eclipse BPM service, is developing as Prototype to eliminate
direct / indirect MLI calls from java system. as per business demand and
enhancement of current business requirement Citi has Introduce  BW & BPM
tool to incorporate all business logic & processing logic as BW
component and BPM used as mapping flow.  The purpose behind this
enhancement to overcome the MLI payload and connectivity /
infrastructure issue . Initially ESMS-BPM team has developing BW & BPM
with front end display.

Leading Code Construction to invoke WSDL operation and incorporate with
F/E/

Attending functionality enhancement review call with Business and
development activity for Portal host.

END to END Testing with User.

Version control with RTC & Enterprise builds activity.

Handling Incident Tickets for SIT & UAT.

Handing all deployment  and verification meeting call.  

2	Project Name:

ESMS (Eclipse Service Management System)

Client	Citi Bank

Organization	Wipro Technologies

Duration	     March 2013 to Till Date

Team Size	15

Component	 Portal and Web Service

Environment with Skill Version	 Jsp, Servlet ,MLI , SOAP , Parser , Java
Script,  JSON.



Project Description:

	       Eclipse Service Management system, has designed to serve Card's
functionality.  ESMS has processes of type predefined and user defined.
Both processes handling by business as per their need/requirement.
Thought business also can defined new process .system has designed with
rule/protocols called business rules.  Rules can be add/modified as per
demand of business.

ESMS also announced their own web service to other module consumers.

Roles:	

Leading Code Construction & Retrofitting for Portal & Web Services.

Attending functionality enhancement review call with Business and
development activity for Portal host.

Unit test cases written and execution in Quality control.

Version control with RTC activity.

Leading personal build with Ant script and Integration Build with
Jenkins tool.

Handling Incident Tickets by assigning to other team members & following
up towards Resolutions before SLA’s.

Helping business Analysis to prepare Functional Specification for each
process.

Handing all deployment verification meeting call.  

3	Project Name:

ECRC(Eclipse Customer Resource Center)

Client	Citi Bank(NA)

Organization	VIT

Duration	     Sep 2011 to Jan 2013

Team Size	6

Component	ECRC Portal and Web Service

Environment with Skill Version	IBM WPF 6.5 



Project Description:

	       Eclipse Customer resource center , Citi online debit / credit
card’s enquiry system where CPO can register user complaint’s with
respects to fraud , card stolen , card replacement , card burn , card
block , secondary card issue , so many. System has designed to retrofit
currently running mainframe application to in presentable also acting
service provider for other’s key module, which all wants information
regarding to user. 

System having capability to detect fraud with respect to credit  / debit
cards while CPO gathering information during greet.

Roles:	

Code Development for portal using IBM WEB sphere portal server.

Handling production Incident Tickets assigning by client & providing
Resolutions before SLA’s.

Attending Business review call.

Prepared the Gap-Analysis sheet.

Leading Defect Analysis & cause Investigation with daily Basis.

Unit test cases written and execution in Quality control.

Version control with clear case activity.

Handing all deployment verification meeting call. 

Handling STR, SMT ticket.

Web service code Enhancement and testing using SOAP.

4	Project Name:

VIT Internal project

Client	VIT

Organization	VIT

Duration	     Sep 2011 to Jan 2012

Team Size	6

Component	Web Component

Environment with Skill Version	IBM WPF 6.5



Roles:	

Code Construction for portal using IBM WEB sphere portal server.

Leading Dynamic Excel reporting generating based on requested Input
using POI.

Integrate Jquery with Application for navigation purpose.

5	Project Name:

ACS

Client	Nandvandan Group

Organization	Techshot pvt ltd

Duration	     Jan 2011 to Apr 2011

Team Size	4

Component	Web Component

Environment with Skill Version	Jsp, Servlet, java Script, Jquery, Ajax,
Mysql.



Project Description: 

Administration Software. It is designed for better interaction between
students, teachers, parents & management. This management software very
gracefully handles all the requirements for easy College management. The
College management system being web based can be accessed from anywhere
in the world, which enables the students, teachers, parents & the
management be in touch with each other at all times.

Roles:	

Gathered all the reporting requirements from customer and preparing
prototype model.

Worked on the blue print and Technical specs documents for all the
modules

Testing Dev code using Junit Tool.

Coordinating & work assignment b/w team member.

6	Project Name:

premium Calculator

Client	Bajaj Allianz

Organization	Techshot pvt ltd

Duration	Dec 2010 to March 2011

Team Size	3

Component	Mobile Component

Environment with Skill Version	MIDLET (J2ME)



Client Description: 

Bajaj Allianz General Insurance received the Insurance Regulatory and
Development Authority (IRDA) certificate of Registration. Mobile based
customer portal allows managing your insurance policy at finger tips. It
helps easily and on the go to manage the policy amidst in this busy
schedule. Mobile application having following feature.

Manage Your Policies, View Premium Calendar, Make Service Requests,
Branch Locator and Easy Contact Us.

Roles:	

Gathered all the reporting requirements from customer and preparing
prototype model.

Worked on the blue print and Technical specs documents for all the
modules

Analysis all Traditional Plans, sub plans.

Coordinating & work assignment b/w team member.

7	Project Name:

                                 Inventory Control System    

Client	Yogmani Group

Organization	Techshot pvt ltd

Duration	Aug 2010 to Dec 2010

Team Size	3

Component	Web Component

Environment with Skill Version	Jsp, Servlet, java Script, Jquery, Ajax,
Mysql.



Project Description: 

Inventory management is the active control program which allows the
management of sales, purchases and payments. 	

Inventory management software helps create invoices, purchase orders,
receiving lists, payment receipts and can print bar coded labels. An
inventory management software system configured to your warehouse,
retail or product line will help to create revenue for your company. The
Inventory Management will control operating costs and provide better
understanding. We are your source for inventory management information,
inventory management software and tools.

Roles:	

Gathered all the reporting requirements from customer and preparing
prototype model.

Worked on the blue print and Technical specs documents for all the
modules

Testing Dev code using Junit Tool.

Coordinating & work assignment b/w team member.

8	Project Name:

    Purchase Order System (production and Sales)

Client	NIC

Organization	GVG Bytes Pvt Ltd

Duration	             Jan 2007 to Dec 2007

Team Size	4

Component	Web Component

Environment with Skill Version	Jsp, Servlet, java Script, Ajax, Mysql.



Project Description: 

The aim of this project is to make the website of PPAC in such a way so
that it can be accessed very easily by the end user as well as by the
administrator. The administrator can easily make addition, updating,
edition and deletion in the website by simply using the interface
provided. Also a user can interact easily with it and gather the
required information.  User can also submit his/her feedback. This site
is being made keeping all the security in mind. No one can directly
access the admin page without logging in. Also a goggle search has been
integrated on the website. Also a Download & Upload link has been
provided on the administrator page to make the uploading and downloading
of files and images task much easier.

Roles:	

Module testing

Declaration

I hereby declare that the information furnished above is true to the
best of my knowledge and belief.

		           

