From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience)
the following technologies?  

Hibernate                           
             -  2
year                                  
             

Spring                  
                              - 5 year &
current

Web
Services                                
    - 
3years   (REST)                           
                 

Core
Java                                  
         -  9years

Design
Patterns                               
-   aware 

UML
design                                 
      -    class and sequence diagrams

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)                 -   
Ant/Maven

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools
etc.]

Eclipse,coboltura,TMD,tomcat

Ready to work for bitchemy is aware about the project

Sanjeev Kumar

Contact No: +91-9908991116

Email id:   HYPERLINK "mailto:sanjeevkchopra@gmail.com"
sanjeevkchopra@gmail.com 

CAREER SUMMARY

Around 9 years of experience in software development.

Currently working as Principal Engineer with Pramati Technologies Pvt
Ltd, Hyderabad.

Previously worked as Consultant with Sierra Atlantic Software Services
Ltd, Hyderabad.

TECHNICAL SKILLS

Languages:	Core Java, SQL, HTML, JavaScript

Technologies:	Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Struts, Spring, Spring MVC, Spring
JDBC, Hibernate, JMS, Lucene, SOLR, JUnit, Ant, Maven, Shell Scripting

Databases:	Oracle, DB2, MS SQL Server, MySQL

Tools: 	Eclipse, Java Service Wrapper by Tanuki Software, Toad, SVN,
Aqua studio, Perforce

App Servers:         Weblogic 8.1, Tomcat, ActiveMQ

OS: 		MS Windows, Redhat Linux, Solaris 5.9, IBM AIX 4.3

Evaluated Apache ServiceMix for OSGi container 

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

Client: 		Castlight Health

Project: 	Search and Classification Module (SOA Developer)

Duration:	April 2014 – Till date

Environment:  	Spring, Lucene, Spring JDBC, JUnit, Ant, Tomcat, Eclipse,
Git

Role and Responsibilities

Responsible for development/enhancement of Search and Classification
Module. Search service is responsible for various kind of providers
with/without prices based on query specified by uses. Search uses
classification service in order to find the right kind of
ontology(procedures, specialties etc) to use for find ing providers.
Classification is based on Lucene indexes.

Client: 		RPX Corporation

Project: 	Developing platform for heuristic prediction based on SOLR 

Duration:	Oct 2013 – March 2014

Environment:  	SOLR, Lucene, solrj, Spring, Spring JDBC, JUnit, Maven,
Tomcat, Eclipse

Role and Responsibilities

Client had working model of SOLR based patent management. It consists of
finding future trends for possible patent litigations etc based on
current acquisition and merger of various organizations. We had  develop
an application which business users can configure and run to see various
results heuristically. 

Client: 		Epocrates Inc

Project: 	Common Services

Duration:	Nov 2011 – Sept 2013

Environment:  	Spring, Spring JDBC, JMS, Apache HTTP Client, OSGi,
Oracle, JUnit,  Ant, Maven, Tomcat, ActiveMQ, Apache ServiceMix, JMeter,
Perforce, Eclipse

Role and Responsibilities

Developed a very complex Labs module of Electronic Health Record
application. This module can be used to place lab order on behalf of
patient. Lab order placed can be processed through “paper” process
in which all medical reports need to be collected by patient.
Alternatively, orders can be processed electronically in which reports
will be made available whenever ready. 

Developed APIs for other services such as Patient Service, Lookup
Service etc.

Developed framework to support communication between client and server
over HTTP.  As of now it is default mode communication.

Migrated existing project following Ant structure to follow Maven
project structure conventions.  It includes changing package structure
and module name of existing services to follow maven conventions while
assuring all test cases are passing.

Evaluated OSGi framework using Apache ServiceMix. Since we had
requirement to have backward compatibility and concurrent version
support for same service we thought of evaluating OSGi.

Converted Collaboration Network API to use full text base search using
Lucene and SOLR. This involved sever side changes to connect to SOLR
webapp using solrj.  Wrote queries to work with full-import,
delta-import and real time update.

Developed load testing script to load test CS server using JMeter.

Client: 		Depotpoint Inc.

Project:	 	Depotpoint REO, Application to Send Image Data

Duration:	Nov 2008 – Oct 2011

Environment:	Struts, Hibernate, JAAS, docx4j, JavaScript, JQuery, MySQL,
Ant, Tomcat, Tortoise SVN, Windows XP

Roles and Responsibilities

Developed business flow as per requirement for different RMC. This
involved creating  handlerXML to handle current action, resultXML to
generated next set of action id and putting view in place for each flow
depending upon current RMC and action id and role combination. Apart
from this we had to take care of which part to display in JSP based on
current RMC, action and current role.

Implemented JAAS layer for authentication. Since user has to go various
rules such as maximum no of attempts allowed during login, we decided to
implement authentication as separate JAAS layer.

Developed flow to generate AR/AP reports.  Requirement was to generate
unique report each time user trigger this report generation with in
userId. We used ThreadLocal variable to keep user state and DB function
to get next AR/AP id from DB to generated reports.

Use case was to replace text placed between delimiter with other text
using docx4j. But tools may generate document where text between
delimiter may be split into multiple terms but still displayed as single
term. I worked out algorithm which would take docx document and will
combine text spread over multiple terms to form single term consist of
text. This way single term can be easily replaced with other text using
docx4j apis.

Developed TrackPoint Image service.  TrackPoint REO application would
send images of different properties to this service. This send process
is triggered using Quartz job scheduler. On receiving property images
this will store images in DB which will ultimately displayed by a
different application.

Developed stored procedure to perform data migration for MySQL.

Client:   	Applimation

Product: 	Applimation Informia Development

Duration: 	Nov 2007 – Aug 2008

Environment: 	Spring, Spring MVC, Spring JDBC, JavaScript, JUnit,
Tomcat, MS Windows XP, Tortoise SVN, Aqua studio, Oracle, DB2, SQL
Server

Roles and Responsibilities

Worked on developing User Create/Edit pages using Spring MVC. This page
takes care of assigning various roles to user.

Worked on developing Data Access classes and service that generate the
DDL for tables and indexes.

Worked on developing DB specific utility method that gives index and its
column information for tables.

Developed utility methods that delete the file on session expiration.

Developing Time series Graphs for Informia Archive Dashboard.

Worked on standalone utility that compares the entities current and
previous version and prepares the report of differences (if any).

Worked on the standalone job that prepares the script using which
mainframe agent has to be prepared.

This job takes the table structure from Applimation home database (which
may be Oracle, DB2 etc.) convert its converts these scripts specific to
DB on ZOS mainframe.

Client:		PRIMEDIA USA

Product: 	OSCAR Implementation

Duration: 	Jul 2007 – Oct 2007

Environment:	Spring, Spring MVC, Hibernate, JavaScript, Tomcat, MS
Windows XP, Tortoise SVN, Aqua studio

Role and Responsibilities

Worked in developing Magazine module.

Developing Sweepstakes module and Store Admin module.

Client: 		Party Gaming

Product: 	Party Gaming Reconciliation Tool

Duration: 	Apr 2007 – Jun 2007

Environment:	Struts, JDBC, SQL, PL/SQL, JavaScript, Tomcat, MS Windows
XP

Roles and Responsibilities

Worked as developer in building a reconciliation tool that would
reconcile the various transactions as recorded by the source system
(Cashier System, but delivered from the existing warehouse) as well as
PSP.

Developed three modules of Reconciliation Tool.

Three modules include PSP Definition and File consistency Check, Run
Report Window.

Client:		Juniper Networks

Product: 	Juniper Maintenance and Support

Duration: 	Oct 2006 – Mar 2007

Environment:	Jakarta Struts framework, Sun Solaris, Windows XP & Windows
2003 Server, BEA Weblogic 8.1

Roles and Responsibilities

Worked in Struts environment to during various enhancement activities.

Provided maintenance and support.

Client: 		Taxware Inc

Product: 	TAXWARE -OS SERVICE WRAPPER FOR SAP ADAPTOR

Duration: 	Jun 2006 – Sep 2006

Environment:	Java Service Wrapper by Tanuki Software, Shell Scripting, 

OS: Windows, Redhat Linux, Sun Solaris, IBM AIX

Roles and Responsibilities

Involved in research on start-up services and structure of above
mentioned Operating Systems.

Developed Shell scripts to install and manage the SAP adapter as
start-up service.

Some of the tasks carried out by shell scripts include installing
adapter as a start-up service, uninstalling service, setting service to
start at boot time, setting the service to be started manually after
boot time 

is over etc.

Client: 		Network Appliances Inc

Project: 		NetApp-LOG4J logging & JMS Cluster to Xterra App, SART Web UI
Development,

		Now AMS Project

Duration: 	Jul-2005-2006- May-2006

Environment: 	BEA Web logic, JMS, Log4j	, JSP, Servlets, EJB, Oracle,
People Soft CRM, JMS

Roles and Responsibilities

NetApp-LOG4J logging & JMS Cluster to Xterra App (BEA Web logic, JMS,
Log4j)

	Involved in R&D on JMS clustering using Web logic,

	Developed UI simulating tree structure using Javascript for assign log
level on package and class basis.

SART Web UI Development (JSP, Servlets, EJB, Oracle, People Soft CRM)

	Involved in developing JSP, Unit Testing for EJB’s and code review.

Now AMS Project

	Role includes enhancement, testing and developing.

PERSONAL PROFILE

Date of Birth: Dec 5th, 1979

Marital Status: Married

Language Know: Hindi, English

EDUCATION 

Master of Computer Applications passed with 7.7 CGPA from Hyderabad
Central University, Hyderabad, India.      

Bachelor’s Degree B.Sc. (Computer Science) passed from Kurukshetra
University, Kurukshetra, India.

	

                                                                        
                   PAGE  1 

