ASHOK KUMAR  BOLISETTI

Senior Software Engineer  				Permanent Address

								7-44-125,

Old Local Office Street,

Email:  HYPERLINK "mailto:bak.040@gmail.com" bak.040@gmail.com 				
Thagarapuvalasa-531162

Contact Number:09000456818				Visakhapatnam (Dist), A.P.                
                     



Objective

	To pursue long term career and work in a challenging and competitive
environment where I can utilize my analytical and problem solving
skills.

Professional Summary

Over 5 years of work experience in Software Development

Currently working as a Senior Software Engineer in PAREXEL ,Hyderabad
since June 2012 to till date

Worked as a Software Engineer with CA Technologies R&D Centre,

Hyderabad, since July 2008 to June 2011 and as a Senior Software
Engineer with E-Data Experts, Hyderabad, India from Feb2012 to June 2012

Exposure to all stages of Software Development  and Agile methodologies

Technical Skill Set                                                     
                                                                        
       

Areas Of Expertise   	JAVA, Servlets, JSP, JDBC, Design Patterns, DS and
Algorithms

Frameworks	Spring MVC Portlet ,Spring, Restful Web Services and
Hibernate

Web Technologies	JavaScript, Dojo  ,XML, AJAX, and Webservices

RDBMS	PL/SQL on  ORACLE 11g ,SQL Server

Tools	SVN,Jenkins,Ant,Maven,Eclipse,Intellij 

Application Server	Tomcat,Jboss,IBM WebSphere Portal Server



Education                                                               
                                                                     

M.Tech, Visual Information & Embedded Systems 

Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur, W.B, India

Passed out in –May 2008, C.G.P.A:  9.17/10 

B.E, Electrical & Electronics Engineering 

 ANITS, Andhra University, Waltair, A.P, India 

 Passed out in – May 2005, Aggregate percentage: 88.61

D.E.E.E, Polytechnic diploma in Electrical & Electronics Engineering

  Sir C.R.R. polytechnic, SBTET, A.P, India 

 Passed out in – May 2001, Aggregate percentage: 85.31

S.S.C, Secondary School Of Certificate

 Board of Secondary Education, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India

 Passed out in – Apr 1998, Aggregate percentage: 80.6

Work Experience                                                         
                                                                        


Product: Tracking and MyQueries

Organization: PAREXEL, Hyderabad, India

Tech Stack: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, SpringMVC Portlets ,Rest
WebServices ,Tomcat, Maven, Eclipse IDE, log4j, IBM WebSphere

PAREXEL is a leading global CRO that helps clients expedite
time-to-market through our development and launch services which
includes a broad range of clinical development capabilities, integrated
advanced technologies, regulatory affairs consulting, and
commercialization services.

Project Release: Tracking and MyQueries

Duration: June 2012 –  Current date

Role: Senior Software Engineer 

The tracking product helps researchers, and imaging research staff with
a means to track, review and assess images and clinical data gathered
from study subjects during the course of a clinical trial.

The MyQueries is a portal component of the eClinical “MyTrials”
service. The MyQueries portlet allows Site users (doctors) to receive,
view, track, and respond to Medical Imaging (MI) queries.

Web Services Provides communication between tracking and MyQueries
Portlet.

Responsibilities:

Developed POC on  Spring MVC Portlet technologies integrated with 
Webservices and KT to the team

Responsible for designing the project architecture 

Responsible for providing the team with a vision of project objectives

Involved in designing the UI component using Spring MVC portlets and
AJAX.

Written Oracle SQL queries for developing the WebServices in tracking

Developed Restful Web Services to provide Communication between the
tracking application  and MyQueries Portlet

Fixed issues in tracking application relating to Business rules

Product: Nextgen

Organization: E-Data Experts, Hyderabad, India

Tech Stack: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, Spring, WebServices ,Tomcat, Maven,
TestNG, Eclipse IDE, log4j, Dozer

NextGen is a software product that is being developed internally by
Experian (Global leader in consumer and business credit Services) for
the geographic expansion of Experian Credit Bureaus  around the world.
NextGen works on 3 different modules. The process starts with
registration of a Bureau Member which facilitates them to contribute
data to the Bureau or to obtain products (i.e. Consumer/Commercial
Credit reports) from it. This will be handled by Bureau Orchestration
Studio (BOS). Later, the supplied data will be re-formatted into the
NextGen pre-configured input format and stored in a database using
Information Management System (IMS) then, the user/client can request
the required Experian on-line product using an end-user interface called
Online Product Delivery System (PDS). 

Project Release: NextGenAustralia

Duration: Feb 2012 –  June2012

Role: Senior Software Engineer 

Module worked on: Accumatch

  	NextGen, performs search based on PIN/BIN. If the requester is
unaware of the PIN/BIN, then he/she uses Identity search and inputs the
parameters like first name, last name, address etc. where accumatch
performs the required normalization of name/address and retrieves the
best matching candidate available in DB. 

Responsibilities

Performed Database Tuning to improve DB performance

Developed feature “TestApp” which is helpful to understand the
Accumatch functionality for Business Team.

Performed unit testing and functional testing

Fixed few issues related to  Dozer mapping and Accumatch

Product: CA Service Desk Manager

Organization: CA Technologies, Hyderabad, India

Tech Stack: C, C++, Java, Majic, Spell, SLUMP, HTMPL, Java Scripts, XML,
SQL Server 2005                    

	It is a core of enterprise IT service support. CA Service Desk manager
unifies IT’s management of core business services, increases end user
productivity and raises customer satisfaction.

	It provides a single point of contact with in an organization and acts
as control point for governance initiatives. As the first line of
response is mitigating service destructions, CA service Desk Manager
aids in discovering the root cause of outages and initiating change
management processes resulting in high quality, consistent service
delivery. 

	It provides advanced knowledge management for support, interactive
online support, self service and advanced root cause analysis through CA
CMDB, as well as comprehensive reporting tools which informs the
business. It also integrates and extends many other IT solutions to
unify and simplify IT service management.

Project Release: Service Desk r12.5 (Anderson)

Duration: Sep 2009 – June 2011

Role: Software Engineer

Responsibilities

Developed a part of Automatic priority calculation feature 

Developed and re-factored PDM macros 

Feature made adherence with 508 compliance

Feature made applicable to PDA, Text API and Email interfaces

Performed  Execution of Unit Test cases and Functional Test Cases

Updated DDS for the implemented features

Prepared test plans for the complete feature 

Fixed QA bugs and extended help for fixing customer issues

Shared Knowledge to team through Subject matter expert (SME) program

Initiated and addressed best practice measures in development
environment

Project Release: Service Desk r 12.1

Duration: Aug 2008 – Aug 2009

Role: Associate Software Engineer 

Responsibilities

Developed general change order updates feature

Performed unit testing and functional testing

Feature made 508 Compliance 

Fixed issues related to  PDA & Text API interfaces

Fixed few Web Services related issues 

Academic Projects Profile

Enhancement of QOS in IEEE 802.11 Multimedia Networks (M.Tech)

QoS support for internet multimedia applications is necessary to meet
stringent end-to-end requirements such as bandwidth, delay, and packet
loss. In this project, IEEE 802.11e std is analyzed and proposed QoS
enhancement for IEEE 802.11e std.

Performance Improvement of an Antenna Position Control System(B.E)

In this project, compensator was designed to enhance the performance of
position control system. R-L design, S-plane synthesis techniques were
used for designing the compensator.

Achievements                                                            
                                                                        

Awarded with a Going above Award, Dec-2010 in CA technologies.

Awarded with a Going above Award, Mar-2009 in CA technologies.

Received Thank You appreciations for my work deliverables 

Secured 99.93 percentile (AIR 13) in GATE (EE)-2005

Topped Rank 1 at Andhra University in Engineering (may 2005)

Personal                                                                
                                                                    

DOB			: 30/03/1983

Gender 		: Male

Martial status		: Unmarried

Father’s Name	: Yerribabu .B

Passport no		: F4652628

Languages known	: Telugu, English and Hindi

