
Sonu Kumar
+91-9543669288
"mailto:skbhagat.nita@gmail.com"
SUMMARY
4.3 years of experience in Software Development and Support of various Enterprise Products/Applications developed using Java Technologies .
Very good knowledge of Software Development Life Cycle 
Having good knowledge on Core Java ,Servlets ,Hibernate,Spring ,Sql
EDUCATIONAL QUALIFICATION 
B.tech (Electronics & Communication Engineering) With 84 %(8.4 CPI) from National Institute of Technology  Agartala(NITA) in 2011.
12th with aggregate 61.5% from B.S Collage(B.I.E.C) 
10th with aggregate 71% from Gandhi High School(B.S.E.B) 

SKILLS

	Programming Languages   
	Core Java,Servlets,JSP,Spring,Hibernate	
	Platforms        
	Windows	
	Database Servers 
	Oracle 10g,MySql	
	Web Servers     
	Tomcat,JBoss	
	Others Tools        
	Eclipse IDE	


SELECTED PROJECT EXPERIENCE

 Company        
        
: Pramati Technologies Private Limited,Chennai
Duration        
        
: April 2015  Till date 
Position        
        
: Development Engineer
Description
FPX (FirePond) is a software company.It provides enterprise-level,on demand software that automates and simplifies the process companies use to sell products and services.It offers Configure Price Quote(CPQ) software that automates the sales processes,with the objective to enhance order accuracy and accelerates sales cycles.The company focuses on clients with complex product lines and services high technology,transportation,construction machinery,agriculture equipment,and service companies. 
Responsibilities
 Doing enhancements in CPQ on Demand
 Doing bug fixing in CPQ on Demand
 Environment: Java,J2ee,Servlet,Hibernate,Spring,MySql DataBase,Eclipse



Company 
        
: Polaris Financial technology Limited
Duration        
        
: August 2011  19 March 2015
Position        
        
: Consultant
 1. Project Title : Core Banking System(CBS UI Change):-
 Description: This is JSP conversion project. The objective is to change the view of the
 product and give a new look by doing some JSP coding changes. Identifying the issues
 for the functionality of every component in the web page and solving them.
 Roles & Responsibilities
 Involved in analysis, design and coding of web application.
 Involved in unit testing process so as to meet the requirements and functionality.
 Analyze test specifications and perform manual testing.
 Environment:  Java,Servlet,Jsp,Eclipse.
 2.Project Title : Digital Branch(Z7)
 Description: This project includes creation of widgets which bring new look and feel 
 experience for the customers. This is being developed using extjs technology. Ext Js is 
 rich UI framework based on JavaScript to develop Rich Internet Applications (RIA). It 
 provides excellent out-of-box Widgets(esp. complex ones like data grid).
 Roles & Responsibilities:-
 Worked on Account Services,Cash Transaction and WorkFlow Modules.
 Involved in analysis, design and coding and unit testings of above modules
 Have been part in analyzing the specifications to meet the requirement.
 Developed smart data entry(FastCash) for all amount filed of all Cash Transaction modules.
 Developed audit framework.
 Environment: Java,Servlet,Hibernate,Spring,MySql DataBase
 Professional Responsibilities
 Working as a Consultant in Polaris Software Financial Technologies.
 Developed applications regarding User Interface in Kalpur Banking System.
 Worked on creating Jsp forms for the Core Banking System project.
 Worked on widgetization for Digital Branch(Z7) project with Java,J2ee,Hibernate,
 & Spring technology and integrated with NBAD (National Bank of Abu Dhabi) 
 Application.

Personal Profile
 Date of birth : September 20,1987. 
 Gender : Male.
 Marital status : Single.
 Languages Known : English,Hindi 
 Interests : Browsing and listening to music,Bike riding,Making friends
Declaration:
        
I hereby declare that the above given details are true to the best of my knowledge.

Place:  Chennai
Date:   
 ( Sonu Kumar)

        

