Professional Summary

Over 8 years and 6 months of relevant expertise in JAVA, J2EE
technologies, web architecture design and implementation with J2EE
framework, Integrating J2EE apps with back end systems

Have designed, developed applications using various frameworks like
Struts MVC.

Have extensively worked in UI Projects involving technologies JQuery,
JSON, HTML5, CSS3, etc. 

Have lead development teams in many successful projects

Have extensively worked in Multi-Threaded concurrent applications.

Played various roles in onsite-offshore model projects – offshore
developer, offshore Project lead, offshore coordinator.

Well versed in Object Oriented techniques, Application server’s
configuration, and JAVA Design Patterns.

Have good working knowledge of JAVA Design Patterns.

Have good domain knowledge on Financial Markets. 

Effectively implemented software-engineering concepts for several
prestigious projects.

Well versed with CMM L5 processes – requirements and change
management, configuration management, software lifecycle and product
quality, review process, process improvement and implementing best
practices.

Have good inter personal, communication and presentation skills.

Have working experience in Investment Bank.

Have 4 years of working knowledge in Equities Technologies (Client
Connectivity, Electronic Execution Systems etc.) 

Well versed in integrating JAVA Application with Continuous Integration
System Build Server (Jenkins).

Professional Experience

Working as Assistant Vice President (AVP) for Citicorp Services India
Limited, Pune since April 2013.

Worked as Technical Lead for HCL Technologies Ltd. Bangalore from
January 2007 to April 2013.

Educational Qualification

M.Tech Post Graudate in Computer Science & Engineering from Rajiv Gandhi
Technological University, Bhopal.

B.Tech Graduation in Computer Science & Engineering from Osmania
University, Hyderabad.

Passport No.:	G2275832

Expertise in Operating System / Tools & Technology / Languages, etc
Operating System – Windows ‘95/98/2000/NT/XP, Linux, Solaris 

	Tools and Technology – Eclipse Ganymede, Perforce, PMD, Aqua Studio,
Rapid SQL, Agile/SDLC, GIT, Rational Clear Case

	Languages- JAVA, Java Multi-Threading, Collections,  J2EE, Struts
Framework, Spring Framework, JMS, JDBC 3.0, HTML5, CSS3,  XML, 
Hibernate, AJAX, JSON, JQUERY, JTEMPLATE

	Application Servers - Weblogic 10.3.3,  WASCE 3.0, Tomcat 7

	Version Control Systems – GIT, Perforce, Rational ClearCase

	Continuous Integration - Jenkins

	Database – Sybase, Oracle

Certifications	Sun Certified Java Programmer (SCJP 5.0)

National Certification in Financial Markets (NCFM)



Summary of Projects Experience with different Clients

Employer Name	Roles & Responsibilities	Tenure of association with the
company

Organization Name: Citicorp Services India Limited.

	Project : Customer Configuration Manager

The Customer Configuration Management (CCM) web tool provides users the
ability to create and manage customer configurations for a variety of
electronic trading activities. It is an On-boarding Process for the
customer who wants to trade through different channels across the
various Stock Exchanges. The Local Support groups authorize the request
and enable the customer for trading .This tool gives the user the
ability to manage changing requirements through extensive request
editing and control. The tool also has ability to support real-time
updates, and many adhoc functions.

Roles & Responsibilities :

Involved in rolling out deliverable products to the production.

Involved in collecting the requirements from the business users of the
application globally.

Proactively involved in the design, coding and the unit testing of the
project requirements.

Involved in the code-reviews.

Co-ordinates with the QA Team for quality assessment.

Provides production support for the application globally.

Updates the status and team productivity metrics to the senior
management.

Responsible for meeting the development maturity standards for the
projects.

Executed Successful projects like GFCID Automation, Application modules
Revamp, Global Risk Checks.

Addressing regular and Ad-hoc BAU requirements.

Tools and Technology used: 

JAVA 6,   Java Multi-Threading, Collections, Servlets, XML, Hibernate,
JMS, Spring 3.0, JavaScript, AJAX, JSON, JQUERY, HTML5, CSS3, JTEMPLATE,
Sybase.

Duration:  Till Date

	April 2013 to Till Date.

 Organization Name:  HCL Technologies Ltd.

Client:  Citi Group	Project :  Global Real-time Alerts

The Objective of this project is to provide real-time feedback over
multiple distribution mechanisms (Email, IB, IM, Text, etc) upon
significant events either in the market (stock price move, index move,
and unusual stock volume) or with the specific order behavior (execution
performance, benchmark slippage).

The Customer Configuration Manager Application will be used to setup
Clients and their associated preferences, thresholds for generation of
these alerts. 

Roles and responsibilities:  

Involved in the requirement study, design, development and Testing
Strategy

Involved in collecting other Adhoc Maintenance Requests and Enhancement
Requests from Business users.

Assigning modules to developers in the team

Performing Code Review.

Involved in the Unit Testing and supporting Quality Assurance testing.

Involved in defects fixing and updating the Quality Testing team on the
defects status.

Updating project status to client regularly

Release Notes preparation and deployments across different regions and
environments.

Tools and Technology used: 

JAVA 6, Spring 3.0,  Servlets, JSP, XML, Hibernate, JMS, JavaScript,
AJAX, DOJO, Sybase, DNA API.

Duration: 9 Months

	 01/05/2012 –10/02/2013

 Organization Name:  HCL Technologies Ltd.

Client:  Citi Group	Project :  CFORE System Events

CFore (Client Connectivity FIX Order Routing Engine) is a trading
platform system used by Citi Traders who trade on behalf of
institutional investors.  

The purpose of this project is to support various CFORE system Events
like Stop/Resume Trading , System Level Refresh, Skip Light house check
from CCM. Based on the events received from CCM, CFORE system will
accordingly executes the client orders.

Roles and responsibilities:  

Involved in the requirement study, design, development and Testing
Strategy.

Involved in collecting other Adhoc  Maintenance Requests and Enhancement
Requests from Business users.

Assigning modules to developers in the team.

Performing Code Review.

Involved in the Unit Testing and supporting Quality Assurance testing.

Involved in defects fixing and updating the Quality Testing team on the
defects status.

Updating project status to client regularly.

Release Notes preparation and deployments across different regions and
environments

Tools and Technology used: 

JAVA 6,   Servlets, JSP, XML, Hibernate, Spring 3.0 ,JMS, JavaScript,
AJAX, DOJO, Sybase.

Duration: 6 Months

	 14/10/2011 –11/04/2012

 Organization Name:  HCL Technologies Ltd.

Client:  Citi Group	Project :  CCM Migration 

The scope of this project is to migrate the deployment of CCM from
Solaris machines to Linux machines and migrate the Application Server
from JRun version 4 to Websphere Application Server Community Edition
version 2.1.1.4 . This involves the change in the build, deployment, and
installation of the new version CCM application.

The current version of CCM is hosted on Solaris machines and due to the
EOL of the Solaris, the new version of the CCM will be hosted on Linux
machines. The current Application Server JRun 4.0 will be replaced by
WASCE 2.1.1.4 in order to provide premium clustering, Caching and
messaging. 

Roles and responsibilities:  

Involved in the requirement study, design, development and Testing
Strategy

Involved in the Analysis and studying of various Application Server and
presented client the synopsis of best Application server suited for CCM.

Assigning modules to various developers

Making necessary code changes to make build compatible to new
Application Server.

Testing and Code review

Release Notes preparation and deployments.

Tools and Technology used: 

JAVA 6,   Servlets, JSP, XML, Hibernate, JMS, JavaScript, AJAX, DOJO,
Sybase.

Duration: 8 Months	 18/01/2011 – 10/09/2011

 Organization Name:  HCL Technologies Ltd.

Client:  Citi Group	Project : GCPM-CCM Integration

This project is an integration of two different applications GCPM and
CCM. The integration work is for On-boarding the new clients and
updating the existing client details through real-time in fix farm
database. The GCPM is a global single instance application, which
collects clients’ data to trade in various products like CASH, DMA,
DSA etc., across various stock exchanges and sends it to the CCM with
client and product details to create that client in fix farm database
thus completing the on-boarding process of client.  

Roles and responsibilities: 

Involved in the requirement study, design, development and Testing
Strategy

Assigning modules to various developers

Developing middle tier components for Business Logic implementation. 

Developing code for data access using Hibernate

Testing and Code review

Release Notes preparation and deployments.

Tools and Technology used: 

JAVA 5,   Servlets, JSP, XML, Hibernate, JMS, JavaScript, AJAX, DOJO,
Sybase.

Duration: 6 months

	 05/07/2010 –24/12/2010 

 Organization Name:  HCL Technologies Ltd.

Client:  Citi Bank	Project : Citi Easy Pay

Easy Pay is a whole cash management system for City customers. Easy Pay
is a Citibank product that facilitates consumers to pay their utility
bills through the medium of ‘Bill Payments Machines’ (BPM) and
‘Drop Boxes’ termed as ‘Kiosks’ that are placed at various
locations for clients.  The operation of Easy Pay is handled by e-Serve,
which is an affiliate of Citibank. E-Serve handles the Cheque and Cash
Processing of utility payments made via the BPM’s and Drop Boxes
placed at various locations for its clients.

Roles and responsibilities: 

As a key developer involved in design, coding, unit testing and
deployment of the project

Involved in supporting the release process in terms of building
Application Kits, Database kits and Release Instructions Preparation

Implemented Audit Log for the entire application

Implemented Pagination for the entire application

Involved in the WEB CL Integration process for the application

Provided technical fixes for the defects raised during SIT Process

Tools and Technology used: 

JAVA 5, Servlets, JSP, XML, JavaScript, AJAX, Oracle.

Duration: 7 months 

	 06/01/2009 –30/06/2010

 Organization Name:  HCL Technologies Ltd.

Client:  BT Financial Group	Project : BT Online

The BTOnline application is the premier web contact and provides
platform for BT’s Margin Lending, Corporate Super and Private
Investment division clients. Secure login sites are provided for retail,
margin lending, corporate super and private investment division clients
to provide account information including balances, reports, perform
transactions, view unit prices and facilitates to set up Regular
Investment Plans.  

Roles and responsibilities: 

Involved in BAU (Business-as-Usual) Work as a key developer. 

Involved in many projects like Migration project, Margin lending prepaid
calculator project as a key lead developer.

Assigning tasks to developers and updating status to client.

Involved in supporting the Production release process in terms of
building Web Kits, Database kits and Release Instructions Preparation.

Executed successfully projects like Genghis to Teros Migration, BT Funds
Administration.

Tools and Technology used: 

JAVA 5, Servlets, JSP, XML, XSLT, Web Services, JavaScript, AJAX, Sybase

Duration:  18 months 

	 02/08/2007 – 30/12/2008

 Organization Name:  HCL Technologies Ltd.

Client:  BT Financial Group	Project : BT WRAP

 

BT Wrap, the exciting product was the first of its kind in Australia. 
Wrap took all back office function like business accounting,
settlements, reconciliation’s, resolutions and broking and put it
together on the Internet. This new product allows adviser to purchase
managed funds and shares in the one place. It provides consolidated
reporting. Potential to save heaps and heaps of time and improve
efficiency.

Roles and responsibilities: 

As a developer responsible to provide business solutions for any
enhancement request or production incidents raised in order to run the
business as usual.

As a key developer involved in the impact analysis of Xalan-Xerces
Library changes.

Involved in supporting the Production release process in terms of
building Web Kits, Database kits and Release Instructions Preparation

Tools and Technology used: 

JAVA 5, Servlets, JSP, XML, XSLT, Web Services, JavaScript, AJAX, Sybase

Duration: 6 months 

	01/02/2007   -  18/07/2007  



Recommended by GlobalHunt India.		.

Contact: 8527653300

E-mail: recruitment30@globalhunt.in

