Dontula Rajdeep	Hno : 7-134/20

Sri krishna sai nagar colony,

chintalbasthi, Malkajgiri,

Hyderabad,Ap-500047



Spring and hibernate: 3 years & current

Hib:no

Build tools:maven

Db:mysql/sql server

Uml design:no

Application server: tomcat/weblogic/websphere

IDE: eclipse

To work in associative and challenging environment, which encourages
continuous learning, provides exposures to new ideas and stimulates
personal and professional growth.

Summary

3+Year: Presently working with Ebix software india pvt ltd, Since Dec
2011 as Software  Engineer.

Good exposure in development of web applications using java technologies
(Core Java, Servlets, JSP), spring and Hibernate.

Good Knowledge in Hibernate Framework, Spring Framework

Good Knowledge in Tomcat, Eclipse and Maven.

Successfully involved in a Product development named TPP which serves
New Business and Underwriting for Insurance Industry.

Energetic and self-motivated team player. Proven ability to work in both
Individual and team environments with positive result.

Has the ability to quickly adapt to new environments and technologies.

	

Technical Skills:

Operating Systems	   :    Windows, Ubuntu.

Languages and Script         :    JAVA 

Servers                                 :    Web logic, Apache Tomcat.

Frameworks                        :    Hibernate, Spring, Spring MVC

Scripting	 	   :    UNIX Shell scripting

RDBMS  		   :    Mysql, Mssql

Servers                                 :    Tomcat.

Tools                                     :    Eclipse, Maven.

J2EE Technologies              :     JDBC, Servlets, JSP.

Organizational Experience

Bugolik Software Solutions (Sokrati) , Pune: March 2011 to September
2011 as Software Engineer.

Ebix Software pvt. Ltd, Hyderabad:  Dec 2011 to till date, as Sr.
Software Engineer.

Education

M. Tech in Computer Science and Data Processing from IIT Kharagpur,
April 2010.

M. Sc in Physics from campus S.R.T.M.U, Nanded April 2007.

Work Profile

Company		: Ebix Software India Pvt Ltd, Hyderabad.

Role			: Software Design Engineer

Duration                           : Dec 2011 to Till Date

Responsibilities & Job Profile:

Project #1

             

 Project Title	        :     Liberty Life insurance

 Client	              	        :     Liberty Mutual Insurance

 Role                    	        :     Team Member

 Team Size           	        :     20

 Duration             	        :     July 2014 to till date

 Environment       	        :     Java, GWT, spring, Hibernate, Activiti
BPMN and MS SQL Server

Description:

Liberty life insurance project depends on our product PSS. Liberty Life
insurance is an automation process of Liberty life insurance business,
Where a producer gives the business to company and data will taken in to
the system either by New business data entry screens or by e-
application.  Based on the input data we do compensation for various
Agents. 

Responsibilities:

Implemented Compensation module enhancements

Understanding the functional requirements

Involved in configuration changes

Interacting with Base product team for the functionalities and 
enhancements

Integration testing, Identifying the issues and fixing them

Analyzing the requirements, getting clarifications from BA, and
developing accordingly

Bug fixing across the modules

Project #2

             

 Project Title	        :     Liberty Life insurance

 Client	              	        :     Liberty Mutual Insurance

 Role                    	        :     Team Member

 Team Size           	        :     12

 Duration             	        :     January 2013 to July 2014

 Environment       	        :     Java, GWT, spring, Hibernate, Activiti
BPMN and MS SQL Server

Description:

Liberty life insurance project depends on our product TPP. Liberty Life
insurance is an automation process of Liberty life insurance business,
Where a producer gives the business to company and data will taken in to
the system either by New business data entry screens or by e-
application.  Based on the input data we do underwriting for decision
making. Underwriting is the process of Analyzing the Risk and making the
decision. The Risk evaluation done through HLC (Health and Life Style
Check).

Responsibilities:

Implemented underwriting module enhancements

Understanding the functional requirements

Involved in configuration changes

Interacting with Base product team for the functionalities and 
enhancements

Integration testing, Identifying the issues and fixing them

Analyzing the requirements, getting clarifications from BA, and
developing accordingly

Bug fixing across the modules

Project #3

            

            Product Title		 : TPP (The Policy Processor)

Role                             	 : Team Member

Team Size		 : 8

Duration			 : December 2011 to December 2012

Environment		 : Java, GWT, spring, Hibernate, Activiti BPMN and MS SQL
Server.

Description:

TPP is a New Business and Underwriting Automating system for Life
Insurance. New Business captured into TPP either by Data Entry or App
Import. Underwriting is the process of Analyzing the Risk and making the
decision. The Risk evaluation done through HLC (Health and Life Style
Check).As part of Risk evaluation Financial and Reinsurance Risk also
considered. The system takes the decision by using Preferred Class Based
or Preferred Point Based or Rating by Standard Tables based on the Risk
evaluated. System also has manual underwriting where underwriter can
override system decision according to his analysis.

Responsibilities:

Developed Underwriting module UI and functionality as per requirement.

Written Spring Service Interfaces and their implementations.

Integration testing, identifying the issues and fixing them.

Code refactoring

Developing use cases across modules.

Bug fixes across modules.

Company		: Bugolik Software Solutions (Sokrati) - India.

Role			: Software Design Engineer

Duration                           : March 2011 to September 2011

Responsibilities & Job Profile::

Manual testing of the FPC optimizer which is one of the algorithms to
show the keyword search engine at the First page. Creating the test
suite using shell script.

Manual, Automation of the scheduler Application with manual testing and
Bug reporting.

Created a ubuntu live CD using remastersys with preloaded softwares of
the company as part of disco project.

Part of Development team in Disco project to develop intranet and social
network as part of Disco project .

 Vmware ESX server utililization in every project to reduce the number
of systems to be used while manual Testing and its trouble shooting.

Manual testing of Adscraper,page scrapper which takes a feed(.tsv) from
a customer and uploads to the server and then checks the urls are
validated or not using hertrix wrapper.

Manual testing of notification reaper and working condition with
scheduler. 

Manual testing of rule based optimizer which creates a .tsv and give the
feed to manual feed loader and creates an entry.

Account level manageability.

Personal Details

Name			    :  Rajdeep Rajbabu Dontula

Email Address		    :     HYPERLINK "mailto:rajdeep.dontula@gmail.com" 
rajdeep.dontula@gmail.com ,  HYPERLINK
"../../../../../Downloads/rajdeep.dontula@ebix.com"
rajdeep.dontula@ebix.com 

Permanent Address           :   H.No. 3-8-19, DRM Nilayam, KotaGalli,
Nizamabad, Ap-503001.

Marital Status           	    :   Married

Nationality		    :   Indian

Gender                                  :   Male

Date of Birth                        :   11 November 1981

Phone Number                    :   +91-9700052432











	rajdeep.dontula@gmail.com

Mob: +91 9700052432

