K.SATYANARAYANA GUPTA

Mail :   HYPERLINK "mailto:ksngupta@yahoo.com"  ksngupta@yahoo.com 	
mobile : +91 9952933326

Objective:

Seeking a position, this explores my knowledge and skills for the
benefit of the Organization as well as me in the field of Enterprise
solutions using advanced java related technologies like JEE5, EJB,
Spring, Hibernate and Struts by accepting the challenging tasks.

Summary:

Having 8+ years of experience in the Software Industry working on
projects related to Java, J2EE and Web Development   

Expert level skills in Java, J2EE, Servlets, JSP, Struts, JSF, Spring
and Hibernate expertise in web development. Having good exposure on
various kinds of design patterns.  

Sound knowledge in OOPS. Good Experience in Interface related projects.
Developed and deployed core banking applications. Done java security and
bio-metric programming. Done data synchronization and quartz scheduler
programming.  

Experienced in using MVC. Experienced with EJB in deploying enterprise
beans for web-based applications. Worked with various types of
application and web servers.

Excellent written and verbal communication skills that can be put to use
to understand clients business requirements and converting the same into
systems fulfilling business needs and good performance in team
environment.

Career Profile:

Worked as a Sr. Software Developer for SHELLINFOTECH SDN BHD, Malaysia
from Mar 2010 to March 2012.

Worked as a Sr. Java/J2ee Consultant for USTECH SOLUTIONS INC (M) SDN
BHD, Malaysia from Dec 2007 to Dec 2009  

Worked as a   Software Engineer for SSG Services India Pvt. Ltd from
June 2005 to Oct 2007. 

Worked as an Application Developer for Trisync Technologies Pvt., Ltd
from Feb 2004 to May 2005.

Academic Profile:

M.C.A (Master of Computer Applications) From Indira Gandhi National Open
University 

PGDCA from Pondicherry University

B.Sc. (Computer Science) from Nagarjuna University

Technical skills: 

Languages	Java, C and C++

Web Technologies	HTML, Java Script, XML, and Ajax 

Distributed Technologies	RMI, EJB

Frame Works	Struts1.3, Hibernate, JSF and Spring

Application Servers	Web Logic, JBoss, Tomcat and WebSphere

IDE	Eclipse and Net Beans

Databases	Oracle, MS SQL Server 2008, MySQL, DB2

PRoject profile:

PROJECT # 1  

Title		:	DSS in eInsolvensi

Client		: 	BHEUU & Mesiniaga Bhd. Malaysia

            Technologies	:	Struts, Hibernate, Quartz, SQL Server 2008,
Mysql, DB2, javaMail                            

Servers		:	IBM Websphere, Tomcat 

Team Size	:	6

Duration	:	Oct 2011 to March 2012

Description: 

There are two proposed enhancement to the e-Insolvency system.  For the
first enhancement, the aim is to return an accurate
bankruptcy/liquidation search result. This is done by returning all of
the liquidation/bankruptcy results which is associated with the search
id. The enhancement will provide a complete picture of a person/company
insolvency status. 

The second enhancement is the Data Synchronization System (DSS). With
the expected commissioning of the INSIST system, the e-Insolvency will
have to synchronize its bankruptcy/liquidation database with the new
system. As such, the DSS is expected to perform this task. Besides that,
a host of new functionalities is proposed for the DSS that helps the
user to manage the synchronization service in a more user friendly way.

Responsibilities:

As a Sr.Java Developer Involved in Requirements gathering and review

Designing front end using JSP using Struts &JSTL tags and performed
client side and server side validations using Java Script and Validation
Framework respectively. 

Managed calls between struts, POJO Services and Hibernate 

Developed  Business and DAO layers using Struts Action and Hibernate DAO

Risk Analysis of performance, reliability, level of security etc

Developed Action classes, DTO, DAO classes for different modules. Wrote
deployment descriptors for Struts using XML

Involved in different roles like Coding, Analyzing, proto-type screens
designing and Database  tables designing 

Effective in evaluating problems and developing technical  solutions 

Worked closely with team members to ensure technical compatibility and
user satisfaction for end users

Done Coding according to specifications for modules.  

Development the system using Servlets, JSP, displayTag, Struts,
Hibernate, Quartz API and javaMail API. 

Communicating with testers, giving clarifications and resolving the
problems.

Attending Daily calls and Project meetings

PROJECT # 2

Title		:	 HRP (High Risk Profiling System)

Client		:	 Ministry Of Agriculture KL Malaysia. 

            Technologies	:	 Java, JSF, Spring, Hibernate, Oracle10g,    
                        

Servers		:	 IBM Websphere

Team Size	:	10

Duration	 :	 Dec 2010 to Sept 2011

 

Description: 

The High Risk Profiling (HRP) System is a decision making system, to
assist Administrator on identifying containers containing the products
that meets the standards set by Malaysian Government while exporting to
Malaysia, Be informed of the High Risk Container Number(HRCN), based on
the identified rules, Enable the User to act on the identified HRCN and
perform investigation , Enable the User to monitor daily / weekly HRCN
based on the status.

Responsibilities:

As a Sr.Java Developer done Coding according to specifications for
modules.  

Developed User Interface using JSF.

Developed Service Layer using Spring framework.

Designed and Developed Java classes, XML Mapping files and Service
classes to use the Hibernate API

 Implemented the Security System using Acegi Security.

Managed calls between jsf, Spring Services and Hibernate mapping files
using sphere framework

Worked closely with team members to ensure technical compatibility and
user satisfaction for end users

PROJECT # 3 

 

Title		:	CSS (Customer Survey Solution)

Client		:	HONG LEONG BANK BERHAD (HLBB), Malaysia

            Technologies	:           JDK6, Java Swing, JavaCommAPI,
rxtx, SQL SERVER 2008                                                   
  

Role		:	Senior Software Engineer

Team Size	:	6

Duration	 :	March 2010 to Oct 2010

 Description:

	The scope of this project presents the process flow and function
routines for the survey processes, which will ensure the integrity of
the Keys management within the scope of the project. This system will be
integrated with Branch Delivery System (BDS) and will require the BDS
team to cooperate together to establish the project. By outlines the
technical specification to address HONG LEONG BANK BERHAD (HLBB)
requirement for Customer Survey Solution on CSMART680 terminal. 

The proposed solution will enable HLBB customers to participate and
record their feedbacks and ratings on the quality of services offered by
HLBB banking tellers. Survey questions will be displayed on the terminal
display and customers will then enter the available answers using the
terminal pin pad

Roles & Responsibilities:

 Worked as a team member with technical staff, designers and
infrastructure team members in project delivery. Developed both client
and server application versions

Worked closely with team members to ensure technical compatibility and
user satisfaction for end users.

Designing front end Screens using Java Swing API 

Making exe files and working java programs as a windows service 

Involved in testing and bug fixing.

Understanding the requirement of the project and helping team understand
the same

Clarifying issues with client 

Done coding for mykad reading and uploading the mykad details into
database

Done encryption and decryption programs using java Cryptography 

Done serial port programming using javacommapi and rxtx packages

PROJECT # 4  

Title		:	LMS (Learning Management System for Malaysian Bar Council)

Client		:	Crimson Logic Malaysia Sdn Bhd, Malaysia

Technologies	:	JDK1.5, Servlets, Struts, Adobe Flash, Oracle10g         
                    

Servers		:	WEBLOGIC 9.2

Team Size	:	8

Duration	 :	Feb 2009 to Aug 2009

Role		:  	Team Lead

Website            :          www.eeps.com.my

Description:

LMS is an online training program for law pupils conducted by the
Malaysian Bar Council. The purpose of this system is to provide a
seamless learning and assessment solution to Malaysian Bar Council to
manage the courses content with the assessment for law students. All law
students are compulsory to take these courses before being fitted to be
admitted as an Advocate & Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya. Through
the implementation of this solution, Malaysian Bar Council would be able
to achieve the following components processes are Registration, Course,
Administration, Forum, Announcement, Reference, Portal, Reports.

Responsibilities:

Done Coding according to specifications for Course, Forums, and Portal
modules.  

Development the system using Servlets, Struts and Flash software for
Course module.

Integrating the modules and testing the functionality

Building and deployment of war files.

Developed Generic JavaScript and java functions for the front-end
validations

Testing flash courses and related java code pages with different
browsers functioning

Preparing the Unit test cases and integration test cases

Preparing Code reviews and peer reviews.

PROJECT # 5 

Title          	 : 	E-BILLING

Client                 :         WestPort Sdn Bhd, Malaysia

Software   	 :          JDK1.5, Servlets, Struts, EJB, Jasper Reports,
Oracle 10g                               

Server 		 :  	WEBLOGIC 8.1

Team Size          :           3

Duration	 :	July 2008 to Jan 2009

Description:  E-Billing is a one of the main product related to
WestPorts, Malaysia to manipulate port operations. It is an electronic
online system which contains port related data can able to search  on
daily, weekly, monthly and yearly bases by giving two dates can get
manipulated records and reports. These works do on two ways Debit and
Finance.  E-billing contains certain modules related to Westport
shipping and management tasks done in the form of modules   Invoice,
Credit Note, Statement, Payment, Message and Administration. The User
can get intimation by e-mail through Message module done with Message
Beans 

Responsibilities:

Switch over the old database into new database by collecting the date
from two servers.

Done coding and testing of Invoice, and Credit Note modules using
Struts,EJB

Reports done using jasper reports

Done Business logic according to new requirements using EJB’s Session
Beans

Developed  JavaScript and java functions for the front-end validations
based on local class which had the Mask default values

Communicating with testers, giving clarifications and resolving the
problems.

Attending Daily calls and Project meetings

PROJECT # 6  

Title          	 : 	BMS (BUPRE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM)

Client                 :         Pharmanaiaga, Malaysia

Software   	 :          JDK1.4, Struts, Db Forms, Oracle10g, Eclipse
IDE, OC4J, Tomcat                               

Team Size          :           6

Duration	 :	Dec 2007 to Jun 2008

 

Description: 

 The BUPRE Management System (BMS) shall focus on ordering, tracking and
monitor the      dispensing of medicine. The system contains various
modules named: Maintenance, Clinic, Approval, Patient Information and
Enquiry etc…  The main Objective for BMS 

Track and monitor the dispensing of Medicine for selected patients.

Provide EPO text file to Pharmaniaga.

Reduce manual record and bookkeeping. 

Improves stock holding.

 User will be able to query various types of information such as item
information and patient information based on multiple criteria.

Responsibilities:

As a developer done coding and testing for various screens related to
Maintenance, Enquiry modules 

Development of Maintenance Module screens done using  JSP, DbForms
framework

Enquiry module screens done using STRUTS framework

 

PROJECT # 7 

Title          	 : 	Launch MSP from Work Plan (ARTEMIS 7)

Client                :          Trylogy, U.S.A

Software   	 :          JDK1.1.8&1.4, Servlets, Swing, AWT, MS SQL
Server, Visual Basic, 

                         MS Project 2000, Install Shield 10, Artemis 7 &
MSP Interface setups                               

Team Size          :          4

Duration	 :	Oct 2006 to Oct 2007

Description: 

 Launch MSP from Work Plan is a module belongs to Artemis 7 Product.
Artemis 7 is a web-based investment portfolio management system that
supports organizations that wish to implement a top-down management
process to optimize the selection and execution of investments. Through
the use of various modules, Artemis 7 provides top-to-bottom support,
from the strategic analysis and approval of investment expenditure, to
the work content definition necessary to successfully execute those
investment decisions. Artemis7’s Project Managers to link their
Microsoft Project plans to Artemis 7 projects. Artemis 7 can be used to
execute processes such as resource location and management and
collaboration. The interface allows the detail project plans to be built
in Microsoft and the plan and resource assignment dates to be published
to Artemis7.

 Responsibilities:

As a  Module Lead done Coding according to specifications, solving
Issues, Environment setup, client discussions, testing ,preparing
documents, plans etc.,  

Development of the User Interface Applets with Swing & AWT

Building war files, creating setup.exe 

Done other CR’s related to Artemis project

PROJECT # 8

Title          	 : 	ABS 

Client          	 :  	Alnova, U.K.

Software   	 : 	Java2, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, EJB, Swing, AWT,
Oracle

Server 		 :  	Web logic 7 

Team Size     	 : 	12

Duration	 :	July 2005 to Sep 2006

Description:

 ABS is a Core Banking product for Paris based ALADIN Bank. It supports
core bank operations like Accounts, Interest, Payments, Customer, Codes,
EOD services, Enquiry, reports etc, modules. Other Systems depends on
ABS for core functionality. Interface module is used as a mediator for
ABS and other systems. The Accounts Module is used to create accounts.
Customer module contains customer relationship types like
company/individual type accounts and also contains details like sweeps,
ATM cards, Passbook details etc. By using enquiry module user can
retrieve queries. Deals module is to provide the functionality of loans
that are provide by bank. Risk module is used to set up the risk level
for accounts. Interface module is used to communicate with surrounding
systems the interface module basically contains 2 sub modules i.e.
uploads and downloads and also contain some other main modules. 

Responsibilities:

As a Team Member Involved in development of Accounts, Enquiry and
Customer modules 

Development of the User Interface using Java Applets, Swing & AWT

Enquiry Forms and Reports done using JSP

Involved in the development and deployment of Enterprise Java Beans 

Done Client side & Server side validations

Done Unit Testing

PROJECT # 9

 Title	     	 :	Appointment scheduling Tool

Employer  	 :  	Trisync Technologies India Pvt., Ltd.

Client        	 :  	Socrates Technologies L.L.C, West Heaven, CT.

			(www.socratestechnologies.com)

Software     	 : 	Java2, JSP, Servlets, Java Beans, JDBC, Oracle

O.S/Server 	 :   	Windows 2000/ Apache Tomcat

Duration     	 : 	Aug 2004 – May 2005

Description: The purpose of the TimeAdmin an Appointment scheduling tool
is to automate the front desk appointment taking process by checking the
Resource availability to perform particular task at a given point of
time. This tool will also help the management to analyze the data and
find the customer needs and demands. This application is a web-based
product for Socrates technologies.

	TimeAdmin provides quick, easy, and secure way to book appointments
with service providers anytime, After-hours, on the weekends, etc.
TimeAdmin has 24 x 7 accesses to service provider’s front desk.
TimeAdmin uses 128-bit encryption technology so information is secured
while booking an appointment.

	TimeAdmin is independent of the business that user operates. Past
scheduling applications were capable of handing one to one appointment
relationships. But TimeAdmin can handle one to many appointments and can
be configured to share tasks among resources based on availability.

Responsibilities

Client side validations were done using java script

Development of the User Interface using Java Server Pages

Done Coding, Testing

PROJECT # 10

Title	    : 		E-Tester

Employer        : 		Trisync Technologies India Pvt., Ltd.

Software         : 		JDK1.3, AWT, Swing 

O.S/Server      : 		Windows 2000

Duration         : 		Feb 2004 – July 2004 

	Description:  The purpose of this project is to conduct examination to
the students to test their 	caliber. Any training institute can use this
project. It consists of two modules Administration 	module and User
module. Administration module which deals with the installation,
updating and 	deletion of questions from database and also takes care of
the modules security authentication 	of the password.  User module deals
with random generation of questions and after completion 	of the
examination results will be shown. The time limit is specified for the
test. A countdown 	timer displays the time left for the completion of
the test. The user can complete the test within 	the time limit. If the
user doesn’t click on the submit button then the filled in answers are
	automatically submitted when the time expires. Test result will be
displayed.

 

Responsible for coding and implementation of all modules and their
validation checks getting exact outputs.

