From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience)
the following technologies?  

Hibernate                           
                  - 
4years                                 
            

Spring                  
                                  - 
4years                                 
               

Web
Services                                
        - 
   4years                              
             

Core
Java                                  
             -   6.9years

Design
Patterns                                
    -    3years

UML
design                                 
          -    2.5year 

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)                    -   
Maven & Ant   

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools
etc.]

Weblogic,websphere,oracle

Last ctc:6.75/10/2 weeks	                                               
                 

 					Swathi  		91 + 9000388746

																				kurapatiswathy@gmail.com

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY: 

6+ years of software development experience in Analysis, Design,
Development, Implementation, Integration and Testing of Application
Software in web-based environments, Enterprise systems and Client/Server
architectures

Using JAVA/J2EE technologies.

Adept in programming practices like Object-Oriented programming.

Expertise in designing and developing enterprise applications for J2EE
platform using JAVA CORE, JSP 1.1/2.0, Servlets2.1/2.2/2.3/2.4, JDBC
2.0, JNDI 1.2.

Hands on experience in developing user-interfacing applications using
HTML, DHTML, XML, JavaScript, AJAX and CSS.

Expertise in various frameworks: JSF, spring3 and ORM tools like
Hibernate 2.0/3.0.

Extensive experience using spring framework (in business layer for
Dependency Injection, AOP, transaction management), Hibernate Framework
(as a persistence layer) , EJB and STRUTS.

Expertise of Application Servers like Apache Tomcat 6.1/5.1, Web Logic
8.1,Jboss 7.1,WAS Server.

Experience working on SOA (Service Oriented Architecture). 

Implemented web-services using RESTful Web services.

Very Strong skills in developing Web Services using SOAP/REST, XML.

Experience in Web Services using SOAP and WSDL.

Experience in XML APIs that include XSLT, SOAP and WSDL, JAXB.

Strong Experience in writing SQL Queries.

Strong Experience in Oracle PL SQL.

Good experience in using Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server 2003

Strong experience on Log4j.

Very good Experience in creating build scripts using Maven.

Experience in development on Windows 98/NT/2000/XP, UNIX(Commands &
Scripts), LINUX platforms.

Good experience in BANKING, TRADING, MUTUAL FUNDS and HEALTH Domains.

Expertise in OOAD and SDLC software development methodologies in
developing n-tier web applications and Client/Server applications

Good experience in preparing functional specification documents and
technical specification documents

Excellent communication, interpersonal and analytical skills and a
highly motivated team player with the ability to work independently

Ability to learn and adapt quickly to the emerging new technologies and
paradigms

Committed to continual performance development in the workplace, thus
adding value to the organization.

EDUCATION:

Education	10th [AVV High School – Bapatla] with 72%

Diploma in Computer Science [Annamallai University] with 92%

Bachelor of Engineering in Information Technology [Anna University]
(2003-2006) with 83%.





Previous Employment Details:

Laser Soft InfoSystems Ltd (A Polaris Group Company)	Dec- 2006 to Aug
-2010



HCL Technologies LTD	Aug -2010 to Jun 2011

Meridian Soft Infosystems LTD	Aug 2011 to 30-Sep-2013



TECHNICAL SKILLS:

J2EE Technologies	JSP,ServletsJDBC,JTA,JMS,Java Mail,JPA,JSTL

Programming languages	Java, SQL, XML, XSLT

Frameworks 	JSF, Hibernate3.0, Spring3,Struts 2.x

Web Technologies	CSS, JavaScript, HTML,AJAX,JQUERY

Application/Web servers	Apache Tomcat 6.1/5.1/3.3, WebLogic
8.1,WAS,JBOSS 7.1

Databases	Oracle 8i/9i/10g, SQL Server 2003, MySQL 5.1

IDE Tools	Eclipse 2.0/3.0/3.1/3.3.0, Netbeans 5.5/6.0,WSAD

Operating Systems	Windows 98/2000/XP/NT, LINUX, UNIX.

Middleware/Distributed Technologies	SOAP, Web
Services,JAX-WS,JAX-RS,JAXB

Version ControlTools	SVN, GITHUB and CVS

Methodologies	Traditional waterfall & Agile



PROFESIONAL EXPERIENCE:

Tradier.com							          JUN 2012 – SEP 2013                       
        Client	: Tradier, charlotte, USA.

Role	: Java/J2EE Developer

	

Tradier.com project is a highly priority project in Online Trading. This
Online Trading Platform will be used by the traders who has been
registered with the ETNA Soft/First South West. This software allows the
registered users to trade Stocks and Options of all the securities
registered in  NASDAQ exchange. Once the User registered , he is
provided with trade data for the security he selects to trade in this
login Dashboard.  Then he can then start online trading with the funds
he is holding with.Trade / Order placed by the user should be processed
by the brokerage firm depending on the rules specified by the Exchange
to which the traded security belongs to.User also has an provision to
view his OrderStatus , Balances ,History of his Account in his
Dashboard.All the account and cashiering services are  provided to
tradier by FSW technologies in the form of web services. All the user
and order related services are provided to tradier by ETNA Soft in the
form of web services.So, this tradier.inc acts as an middleware
brokerage tool between the users and the service providers who have been
registered with the exchange NASDAQ.

Responsibilities:

Involved in all phases of Software Development Lifecycle including
Requirements 

Collection, Analysis of the Customer Specifications, Development
,Handling Change Request, Bug Fixing, Code Review and Customization of
the Application.

Developed the application using J2EE architecture specification and
Design patterns.

Involved in designing of the application following Model-View-Controller
(MVC) architecture.

Implemented MVC architecture using spring3 frameworks combined with
Hibernate for database persistence.

Involved in Coding Server pages using JSP.

Implemented User Interface (front-end) screens using JSP, HTML, CSS and
JavaScript.

Implemented asynchronous communication using AJAX.

Using JQuery for event handling and AJAX interactions for rapid Web
development.

Developed screens using JSP, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, JQUERY,
spring3 MVC, Java and XML.

Created web services using Apache AXIS2, Jersy.

Developed Various CRUD operations by using REST full web services.

Developed Various Middleware Components by using SOAP full web services.

Developed DAO interfaces & implementations for database related
operations using Hibernate and JAXB.

Implemented SQL, PL/SQL Stored Procedures.

Using Jboss application server based upon the project.

Created various unit test cases and integration tests for the DAO and
Service using JUnit.

Using Junit for testing the application

Using SVN version controller to manage the code versions.

Using Maven build tool to build and deploy the application.

Environment: Core Java, JSP, Servlets,Spring3 MVC,SOAP web services,
REST Web services, HTML, JavaScript, Ajax, HTML, JQuery Oracle, Junit,
JBOSS application server7.1, PL-SQL.

TRADEKING.COM					               AUG 2011 – JUN 2012                  
                  Client	: TRADEKING, NEW JERSY, USA.

Role	: Java Developer

	

TRADEKING is an website that enables online trading for the people in
USA who has been registered with the trade king firm. This software is
an Online Brokerage Tool which allows the registered users to trade
Stocks and Options of all the securities registered in different
exchanges like AMEX,NASDAQ.This site consists of SOD an EOD processes
for retrieving the current day and previous day market price, volume
from the exchange and Streaming module to get the up to date quotes of
each and security from their corresponding Exchanges.Once the User is
provided with all the exchange data for the security he selects to trade
in this login Dashboard , he can start online trading with the funds he
is holding with.Order placed by the user or account holder should be
processed by the brokerage firm depending on the rules specified by the
Exchange to which the traded security belongs to.User also has an
provision to view his Order Status , Balances ,History of his Account in
his Dashboard once he enter into the site.

Responsibilities:

Responsible for maintaining the code quality, coding and implementation
standards by code reviews.

Developed the application using J2EE architecture specification and
Design patterns.

Designed and developed MVC architecture using spring modules [Web, Core,
DAO, and AOP].

Created and used style sheets {Cascading Style Sheets [CSS]} to change
the look & feel UI.

Extremely used plain JavaScript and JQuery [JavaScript Library] to do
the client side validations.

Used AJAX to get the data from the server asynchronously by using JSON
objects

Used Spring3 Validation framework to implement the server side
validations

Used JSP Tag Libraries [JSTL] to implement the logic inside the JSPs

Implemented persistence mechanism using Hibernate (ORM Mapping)

Responsible for mapping the database model into persistence objects
using Hibernate Annotations.

Developed the DAO layer for the application using Spring Hibernate
Template support

Developed various business logic and reports using HQL and Hibernate
Criteria

Used Eclipse IDE to develop the application

Used CVS version controller to manage the code versions

Used Maven build tool to build and deploy the application.

Used Oracle Database for persisting the data.

Used Oracle BEA Web logic for deploying the application

Created various unit test cases and integration tests for the DAO,
Service, and Controller components using JUnit, dbUnit and Spring Test
support.

Environment:  Java 1.6, JSP, Servlets, JDBC, HTML, JavaScript, CSS 2.0,
XML, XSLT, XHTML, jQuery Oracle, SQL, Oracle Web logic Server, Eclipse,
log4j 1.2.16,   Maven, web services, spring, Hibernate, CVS version
Manager

RebiSmart  					                                           FEB 11 –
AUG 2011                                     Client	: Merck
Sereno,Germany

Role	: Java Developer

	

RebiSmart Download Software

	

The RDS Software is used to transfer recorded injection data from the
RebiSmart™ injection device to the physician’s PC, display reports,
graphs and perform simple calculations. The data transfer makes use of
the RebiSmart™ integrated IR port and is performed either directly to
the PC through the IR channel or via a docking station which consists of
an IR to USB adaptor in a custom molded support. This application is
having main modules as User authentication, Data upload/download from
device, patient maintenance, device settings and Reports.  Application
should be globalized.

          

Responsibilities:

Participated in low level design and requirement understanding with
functional team.

Used OOAD and OOP’s concept like Abstraction, Polymorphism,
Inheritance, Encapsulation,

Modularity using Java for designing Interfaces, classes and business
methods in Java

Extensively used Java Collections and Reflection API

Implemented multithreading concepts for caching application data

Developed the application using J2EE architecture specification and
Design patterns

Developed screens using JSP, DHTML, CSS, AJAX, JavaScript, Struts,
spring, Java1.5, EJB3.0 and XML

Implemented MVC architecture using spring and Struts frameworks combined
with EJB 3.0 JPA for database persistence.

Used Struts Tiles Framework to structure core application webpage
layouts and to assemble the JSPs

Also created various common tags that are used for handling common
functionalities like data element filtering, Parent/Child dropdowns etc

Developed test harness to test the web services which helps test teams
to test web service components independently using various request and
response xml

Used Springs Dependency Injection feature and configured Function Action
classes as Spring Beans for redirecting the user request to the
appropriate class which implements corresponding business functionality.

Developed Persistence Framework consisting of components like
Persistence Code Generator, Persistence Manager and Data Access Objects
which hides JPA complexities and offers transparent access to database.

Used SQL/PLSQL to perform complex database operations and generated
various stored procedures, functions for DML operations,

Developed Junit test cases

Involved with testing team to determine dependency towards removing
bottlenecks and ensuring smooth testing process.

Involved in various internal releases of the application and supported
the application modules during testing and pre-production phases.

Environment: J2EE, Spring Framework–2.5, Struts, EJB 3.0, JPA, Oracle
10g, TOAD, AJAX, Log4J, ANT, Junit, Web Logic, Eclipse, Rational Clear
Case, WebServices.

LifeScan        				          			AUG 2010 – FEB 2011	                 
                   

Client	: [J & J] – Diabetics Management System, USA.

Role	: Java/J2EE Developer

	

Zoom Pro Software 

OneTouch® Zoom™ Pro is an easy to use tool that allows you to spend
more time managing your patients and less time analyzing their data,
through features such as Pattern Recognition and SnapShot®. The Program
is designed to help your practice track and monitor blood glucose
levels, insulin doses and other medications for your diabetes patients
so you can help them make better informed therapy decisions about meals,
exercise and other activities that can help improve their glycemic
control.

Responsibilities:

Developed the front-end screens using HTML, CSS, JSTL, JSPs and tag
libraries.

Used various design patterns like Data Access Object and Model View
Controller (MVC).

Used spring to develop lightweight business component

Used Hibernate as ORM and involved in configuring hibernate to access
database for various modules.

Used Eclipse for writing code for JSF, Servlets.

Integrated Hibernate with spring also used spring for other Dependency
Injections.

Developed Interoperable Components i.e. Web Service enabled services.

Developed DAO’s using Hibernate to access data from Oracle database.

Developed Hibernate mapping files and classes

Created build scripts for compiling and creating war, jar.

Monitored the error logs using Log4j and fixed the problems.

Used SVN as version control tool

Environment: Hibernate 2.0/3.0, Spring, JSF, Servlets 2.5, XML,
JavaScript, HTML, CVS, Log4J, Oracle, WAS Server.

Mutual Funds         				 	 	 DEC 2007- AUG 2010                        
        

Client	: SBI MUTUALFUNDS,Hyderabad, India

Role	: Java Developer

	

Asset Management System

Mutual Fund is a trust that pools the savings of a number of investors
who share a common financial goal. The money thus collected is then
invested in capital market instruments such as shares, debentures and
other securities. The incomes earned through these investments are
shared by its unit holders in proportion to the number of units owned by
them. The main use of Mutual funds is Professional Management,
Diversification, Transparency, Flexibility, and Reduction in Risk, Low
Costs, and Liquidity.

The objective is to develop integrated software for the use of Asset
Management companies to help them manage funds. The Scope of the project
covers Front Office, Mid Office and Back Office operations and does not
involve in collection and redemption of funds.

Responsibilities:

Developed components in different modules and handled change request,
bugs.

Developed UI using HTML, JavaScript, and JSP, and developed Business
Logic and Interfacing components using Business Objects, XML, and JDBC

Managed connectivity using JDBC for querying/inserting & data management
including triggers and stored procedures

Developed components using Java multithreading concept

Developed various EJBs (session and entity beans) for handling business
logic and data manipulations from database

Involved in design of JSP’s and Servlets for navigation among the
modules

Designed cascading style sheets and XSLT and XML part of Order entry

Hosted the application on WebSphere

Environment: Java, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Web Logic, JavaScript, MS-SQL
Server, Windows 2000.

Kiosk Banking        				 	 	 DEC 2006- NOV 2007                        
        

Client	: Corporation Bank, Mangalore, India

Role	: Java Developer

	

Kiosk Banking is sub set of Internet Banking. This software product
provides various information/services for the registered users. 'LASER
TOUCH' provides quick customer access to the banking products. Using a
touch screen workstation. This will be located in the lobby area of the
bank branch or in an off-site location such as super markets, railway
stations, and airports with kiosk facility. This ensures privacy and
speedy access to all routine banking activities. LASER TOUCH thus
provides tremendous service to the valuable customers with as many as 20
options to customers at the

touch of a button.

      'LASER TOUCH' is a self-service Product, which enables the clients
to access these facilities through a Touch Screen Monitor without the
assistance of the Bank's staff. The client can freely

execute a variety of transactions in complete privacy.

Responsibilities:

Developed components in different modules and handled change request,
bugs.

Developed UI using HTML, JavaScript, and JSP, and developed Business
Logic and Interfacing components using Business Objects, XML, and JDBC

Managed connectivity using JDBC for querying/inserting & data management
including triggers and stored procedures

Developed components using Java multithreading concept

Developed various EJBs (session and entity beans) for handling business
logic and data manipulations from database

Involved in design of JSP’s and Servlets for navigation among the
modules

Designed cascading style sheets and XSLT and XML part of Order entry

Hosted the application on WebSphere

Environment: Java, JDBC, JSP, Servlets, Web Logic, JavaScript, MS-SQL
Server, Windows 2000, WSAD IDE.

Awards

Best Employee of the Quarter Jun 2013 -  Meridian Soft Info System LTD.

Award Of Appreciation for the Year 2010  - POLARIS Technologies.

	                                                                       
                                

