Spring:5 year  & current

Hibernate:3 years

Web services:REST

Java:7 year

DB: oracle

Application server: jboss

15/19/90days

SRIMANTH REDDY PALEMPALLE.			PH - +91 8978355882

Flat No 102,					srimanth.reddy.palempalli@gmail.com

Saraswathi Arcade,

Plot No 36,

Sai Lakshmi Housing Estate,

Pragathi Nagar,	

Hyderabad, A.P						

PIN – 500090

			           

Summary

Creative, dedicated Information Technology Professional with over 7
years and 7 months of experience in full life cycle of software design
process.

To work on technically challenging projects with focus on developing
leading edge technology and to accomplish every task assigned with fully
sincerity, honesty and with complete devotion.

Sun Certified Java Programmer 1.5

Proficiency in Programming and DB related Applications including:

Java

JSP/Servlet

Struts

Spring

iBatis

Spring Web Services

Spring Security

	DB2

Oracle

MySQL

	WAS

Tomcat

Glassfish	Unix

VB (Basics)

Power Builder



Effectively used the following tools:

Eclipse

RSA

Net Beans

SOAPUI

Http Requester

	Toad

Aqua Data Studio 4.7.2

Advanced Query Tool

SQL Query Builder

Spring STS	Visual Source Safe

CA Harvest

SCM Suite

GIT

SVN





Professional Experience

In my total 7+ years of experience, I have worked in few of the best
companies in the industry as below,

Satyam Computers Services Ltd. (Jun'07 - Feb'10)

Scope International Pvt. Ltd. (Feb'10 - Jun'11)

ValueLabs (Jun'11 - Apr'14)

UnitedHealth Group (Apr'14 - Tilldate)

UnitedHealth Group – Hyderabad, India 			     April-2014 – Till Date

PROJECT I	:      HEDIS

Client		:      UnitedHealth Care

Technologies  	:      AngularJS, Spring, JSON Web Token, Hibernate,
bower, npm, gradle, JUNIT, Karma

Database	:      Oracle 11g

Role          	:      Senior IT Analyst 

Duration	:      Dec 14 to Till Date

Company	:      UnitedHealth Group,

Description:

		HEDIS (a.k.a Health Effectiveness Data and Information Set) is an
application rates Insurance companies which allows Members and Employers
choose the best insurance plan according to the ratings. This
application helps rating both Federal Govt. and Corporate plans.

Responsibilities:

As a Team member, worked on,

Developing POC's.

Design requirements and UI screen layouts.

Decide on technologies and architecture to be used.

Development, Implementation and Testing.

Have daily calls with business team to update the status on currently
running tasks and pickup new from backlog according to my bandwidth.

Analyse the User Story and create tasks and estimations.

Perform Unit Testing. 

PROJECT II	:      MSP

Client		:      UnitedHealth Care

Technologies  	:     JSF, UI Tool Kit, Spring Batch, Apache POI, Springs
IOC, Spring JDBC Template, 			      Maven

Database	:      Oracle 11g

Role          	:      Senior IT Analyst 

Duration	:      Apr 14 to Dec 14

Company	:      UnitedHealth Group,

Description:

	Application 1: MSP

		MSP (a.k.a Medicare Secondary Payer) is an application which allows
users to determines suspects and conduct investigations to determine
whether the situation is MSP or NOT MSP. It is said MSP, when a
government sponsored Insurance plan pays first in a case where any
Self/Employee funded insurance plan is also active during the encounter
and is responsible for the payment of that encounter. After
investigating into the suspect, and there is an MSP situation, a
submission is made to CMS for repayment and the application also allows
user to track the same and the case is closed.

Responsibilities:

As a Team member, worked on,

Development, Implementation and Testing.

Have daily calls with business team to update the status on currently
running tasks and pickup new user stories from backlog according to my
bandwidth.

Analyse the User Story and create tasks and estimations.

Performed Unit Testing. 

Value Labs – Hyderabad, India 			     June-2011 – Till Date

PROJECT III	:      Monitise 

Client		:      Monitise. 

Technologies  	:     Springs Web Services, Spring JDBC Template, Apache
Camel, JMS, JUNIT, Maven, 			      Ant, IVY

Database	:      Oracle 10g

Role          	:      Team Member 

Duration	:      Jun 11 to Apr 14

Company	:      Value Labs,

Description:

	Application 1: Movida

		Movida is an application where the registered users of Movida App can
pay their utility bills and movie tickets through basic java mobiles.
USSD Shortcodes are used to do the transactions like paying utility
bills such as DTH, Postpaid Telephone charges, Landline Phone charges,
LPG gas bills etc.. To register to this application, user need to have a
valid VISA card.

	Application 2: Merchant Plug-In Interface(MPI)

		MPI is a web service which is used to authenticate the payments by
integrating CORE with third party merchant called Modirum which in-turn
will connect to Visa ADS server and Issuer bank servers validating the
card details and the amount being paid.

	Application 3: Peer 2 Peer (P2P) transfers

		P2P is a Rest web service through which peer to peer transfer of money
is made between 2 accounts holding Visa cards. This service will make
use of Visa P2P API to make the transactions. There will be of total 4
core Visa API's for P2P transfers. They are Account Lookup (ACNL),
Account Funding Transaction (AFT), Original Credit Transaction (OCT) and
Account Funding Transaction Reversal (AFTR). This service now currently
will support only domestic transactions but it also supports
non-domestic transactions in future.

		

Responsibilities:

As a Team member, worked on,

Development, Implementation and Testing at client location.

Have daily calls with client to acquire the new requirements and update
the status on currently running tasks.

Do the estimations of the new tasks and create the User Stories for
them.

Performed delegation activites by distributing the tasks in effective
and organized way.

Performed Code Walkthroughs,  Unit Testing. 

Provided support for System Integration Testing.

Scope International Pvt. Ltd. – Chennai, India 			     Feb-2010 –
June-2011

PROJECT IV	:      Enterprise Scoring Engine 

Client		:      Standard Chartered Bank. 

Technologies  	:      J2EE, , JSP, JavaScript,PL/SQL, Struts, Spring and
iBatis

Database	:      Oracle 10g

Role          	:      Team Member 

Duration	:      Jun 10 to June 11

Company	:      Scope International Pvt.  Ltd.,

Description:

		Enterprise Scoring Engine (ESE) is an application where the bankers
can create a customer profile and evalute their credit limit based on
their yearly turn over and their behavioral models. This application is
applicable for enterprises of the ranges, Medium Enterprise(ME), Small
Business(SB) and Micro Business(MI). It consists of 2 modules, Spread
and Scorecard. Through this application, New customers as well as
Exisiting customers, ranging in MI,SB or ME can apply for Credit. 

Responsibilities:

As a Team member, worked on,

Development, Implementation and Testing.

Performed Code Walkthroughs and independent Unit Testing. 

Provided support for System Integration Testing.

Privided Support for UAT.

PROJECT V	:      CREDITMATE 

Client		:      Standard Chartered Bank. 

Technologies  	:      J2EE, , JSP, JavaScript,PL/SQL, Struts, Spring and
iBatis

Database	:      Oracle 10g

Role          	:      Team Member 

Duration	:      Feb 10 to Jun 10.

Company	:      Scope International Pvt.  Ltd.,

Description:

		CreditMate is the new global system which streamlines and automates
the credit initiation and approval processes in the bank. It consists of
various modules like Business Credit Application, Group Mandate,
Standard Instruction Form etc. Using CreditMate, Sending, receiving and
routing the credit documents and tracking will be done systematically on
the new personalised Workspace module.

Responsibilities:

As a Team member, worked on,

Requirements gathering, Estimation.

Development, Implementation and Testing.

Performed Code Walkthroughs and independent Unit Testing. 

Satyam Computer Services Ltd. – Chennai, India 			     Jun-2007 –
Feb-2010

PROJECT VI	:      P 2 Package (Maintenance and Production Support) 

Client		:      Nissan, North America. 

Technologies  	:      J2EE, Java Bean, Servelets, JSP, Unix, VB

Database	:      DB2, Oracle 10g

Role          	:      Team Member 

Duration	:      Apr 09 to Feb 10

Company	:      Satyam Computer Services Ltd.,

Description:

	Application 1 : POFT

POFT,  Production Ordering and Forecasting Tool, is a decision support
tool utilized in developing the Regional 3 Month order sent to the
various production sources each month.

	

	Application 2 : OMS

OMS is a decision-support tool that helps retail Dealerships in the
vehicle ordering process.

	

	Application 3 : VPIPE

Vehicle Pipeline is an Excel add-in that allows users to query 36 months
worth of sales, inventory, financial, and demand sensing data by region.


	Application 4 : EFLO

EFLO is a Web application that allows users to query information from
Oracle database by making selections from EFLO screen. 

	Application 5 : PRODPIPE

PRODPIPE is a Web application that allows users to query information
from Oracle database by making selections from PRODPIPE screens. 

Responsibilities:

As a Team member, worked on developing Design Document, Coding.

Analysis of the issues.

Resolving the incidents before the SLA.

Documenting the old issues, monitoring sheets which helps in easy job
monitoring.

Keeping the application up well before the SLA.

Given knowledge Transfer within the Team.

Did many Minor enhancements and Major Enhancements to stabilise the
applications.

PROJECT VII	:      P 2 Package (Major Enhancement OMS – Dealer Order
Management System) Client		:      Nissan, North America. 

Technologies  	:      Java Bean, Servelets, JSP

Database	:      DB2, Oracle 10g

Role          	:      Team Member 

Duration	:      Dec 08 to Feb 09

Company	:      Satyam Computer Services Ltd.,

Description:

The Dealer Order Management System (OMS) is part of the Integrated
Customer Order Network (ICON) initiative. ICON was designed to integrate
Nissan North America’s approach to vehicle ordering, production, and
allocation, and its mission is simple: Deliver the right vehicle, to the
right place, at the right time. OMS is a decision-support tool that
helps retail Dealerships in the vehicle ordering process.

Responsibilities:

As a Team member, worked on developing Design Document, Coding.

Involved in

Enhancement Implementation

Bug Fixing

Testing

I was in charge of following deliverables

Estimating enhancements

Deployment

		

PROJECT VIII		:	Design Change Warehouse (DCW)

Client		: 	Nissan, North America. 

Technologies  	: 	Struts, Spring and iBatis

Database	:	DB2

Role          	: 	Team Member

Duration	: 	May 08 to Dec 08

Company	:	Satyam Computer Services Ltd.,

Description:

Design Change Warehouse system (DCW) is a custom web based application
to manage cost change proposals. DCW will systematically integrate data
from Proposal Tracking Management, Budget Requesting, Purchasing Project
Management, Project Bill of Materials, Part History, Dnote Management,
Product Development Cost Tracking Form Management and Changing Parts
Lists into a common database for Design Change Cost reporting. DCW has
been developed using three-tier architecture with clear separation
between user interface, business and data objects. This application has
provision to handle the Authorization of user for a particular screen
and fields. Based on the roles the user will be allowed to perform with
the application.

Responsibilities:

As a Team member, had worked on two modules and received “PAT ON
BACK” for execellent performance and dedication.

Involved in

Implementation

Security logic development and implementation

Review

Testing

Bug Fixing

I was in charge of following deliverables

High level design document

Unit Test cases

Code deliverables

PROJECT IX		: 	POFT Remediation

Client		: 	Nissan North America

Technologies  	: 	HTML, JavaScript, Java, Stuts, JSP, servlets, JDBC

Database	:	DB2,Oracle,SQLServer

Platform	: 	Windows XP

Designation       	: 	Software Engineer

Duration	: 	Feb 2008- May 2008   

Company	:	Satyam Computer Service Ltd.

Description:

POFT,  Production Ordering and Forecasting Tool, is a decision support
tool utilized in developing the Regional 3 Month order sent to the
various production sources each month.  The tool provides easy access to
historical retail sales and current inventory pipeline.  This
information will assist the user in understanding the current market
situation for a vehicle, prior to placing new vehicle orders.

Responsibilities:

Involved in major Enhancements of this application, coding. 

Involved in Migration of the application from java1.2 to java1.4. 

Involved in Implementation of Host Bridge. 	

Prepared Detailed Design Document, Code Review Report.

Involved in Unit Testing, System Testing and UAT.

PROJECT X		:	NOVELL NETWARE ELIMINATION FOR OPEN SYSTEM

Technologies  	: 	Power Builder

Database	:	SYBASE

Platform	: 	Windows XP

Designation       	: 	Software Engineer

Duration	: 	Sep 2007-  Feb 2008

Company	:	Satyam Computer Services Ltd.

Description:

Nissan is in the process of eliminating applications pointing to Novell
Netware and replace it with Windows 2003 AD. This is a project to check
what are the related items are affected in the application based on the
change from Novell Netware to Windows 2003 AD.

Responsibilities:

Involved in Business Functionality Analysis. 	

Involved in Preparing Detail Design Documents. 	

Involved in Coding, Unit Testing and System Testing. 	

Involved in Preparing Code Review Report

Highest Education

Bachelor of Engineering							(2003-2007)

College		: RGMCET, A.P

Specialization	: Mechanical Engineering

Aggregate 		: 75%

Personal details

Father’s Name		: Mr. Sudhakar Reddy P

Date of Birth		: June 11, 1986. 

Languages Known 	: English, Telugu  and Hindi 

I here by declare that the information and facts stated above are true
and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.

(SRIMANTH REDDY P)	                                                     
                                                                        
           

	Page   PAGE  1  of   NUMPAGES \*ARABIC  10 

