Spring:4 year& current

Hibernate:4 year

Web services:RESTFUL

Java: 8 years

Build tools: ant/maven

9..8/14/60days

Bhanu Pratap Singh					Postal Address:

DOB: 28 July 1981.					B-211, Sector-20

  HYPERLINK "mailto:Bhanu.singh007@outlook.com" 
Bhanu.singh007@outlook.com               			Noida

Cell: +91-9911685132					India, zip code - 201301

Objective:

To work in an organization with people who are dedicated to solve
complex business issues and suggest as well as implement solutions.

To be a part of an organization where the work is stimulated based on
Employee Satisfaction and sound business practices.

Experience Summary:

I am having around 8 years of work experience in Analysis, Designing,
Development, and implementation of Software in desktop and client/server
environment using J2EE Technology with
CoreJava,JDBC,JSP,Servlet,Struts1.2,Hibernate3.0,Spring2.5/3.0,JMS,jaspe
rReport,Eclipse,NetBeans6.5,Ajax,JQuery,DWR,SQLServer2000, 2005.

Design Pattern:

I have experience in different design patterns, which supports
persistence framework, improve performance and scalability, manage
security, integrate enterprise application and enable reusability,
maintainability and extensibility.

Computer Skills:

Skill Type	Skill Name	Level

Framework	Struts1.2,Spring3.0 (IOC,MVC,AOP,WS,Security, ORM,DAO)	Good

Architecture	MVC 2, Page centric	Proficient

App. Server	Weblogic8.1,JBoss Web Sphere	Good

Web Server	Tomcat 6.0	Proficient

Programming	J2sdk1.6,JDBC,JSP,jstl,Servlet	Proficient

Persistence Framework	Hibernate 3.0,IBatis	Good

SOA	Web Service,JMS(MQ), BPEL,SCA,Apache Camel	Good

Reporting Tools	Jasper Report	Good

Database	SQL Server 2000,2005	Proficient

Database	Oracle 10G	Beginner

Deployment Tools	Maven, Ant	Good

Data Transfer	XML,JAXB,XMLBean	Good

Security framework	Java Cryptography	Good

Deployment Tools	Putty,WinSCP,FTP	Good

Repository	SVN,VSS	Good

OS	Window 2000/XP,Linux.	Proficient

Other	Payment gateway and SMS	Good



Domain Experience:-

Domain	Experience

Finance	5.3 Years

e-procurement	08 months

Hospitality	1 Years

e-learning	06 months



Educational Background:

Master Of Computer Application	Aug 2003 – Jan 2006	NIET,G.Noida

Bachelor of Science	July 1999 – July 2002	Govt.Degree Collège, obra
(Sonbhadra)



Working Experience:

1- Job Title :-Lead Consultant (java/j2ee)

Company: - Genpact headstrong capital markets

Job Duration :-Nov2014 to  till Date

2- Job Title :-Sr.Software Developer (java/j2ee)

Company: - Dell Services

Job Duration :- Sep2012 to  May2014

Projects :-

Title:-CCT (Customer Contact Tools)

CLIENT:-Hilton

Duration:-Aug2013 to Till Date

Software:-Java , Spring , Multithreading

Role:- Developer

Project Description: CCT is a browser based dashboard application which
helps agent in booking The Property for the customer. Agent is a
customer care representative who books property for customer through IVR
facility. Agent could search the guest details by inputting first name,
last name etc. On searching parameters based, application list down all
the properties.

Title: - Texas Language Arts (TxLA)

Client: Houghton Mifflin Harcourt

Duration:-Sep 2012 to Aug 2013

Role:-Developer

Software: Java, spring, Web service, Hibernate, Ejbs, Oracle 10G.

Project Description:

The Texas Language Arts program aims to provide an innovative print and
digital language arts program that is focused on the key customer
technology needs. This digital program will offer one log in for each
student and teacher and provide a system with defined student and
teacher portals which facilitate seamless a navigation path between the
key teacher and student digital aids such as Assignments, Class
Management, Net Text and the Grammar Snap.  One of the key intentions
of the project is to provide a 21st Century look and feel to reflect the
characteristics of the changing teacher student demographic and digital
user styles.

3- Job Title:-Sr.Software Developer (java/j2ee)

Company: - Birlasoft (India) Ltd D–195, Sector 63,NOIDA 201306.

Job Duration:-April 2011 to Aug 2012

Job Profile:-I am member of software development team in the company.

Company Profile: - Birlasoft (India) is ISO 9001:2000 and SEI CMM Level
5 Company.

Projects :-

Title :-iFleet

Role :-Developer

Duration:-May 2012 to Aug 2012

Software:-Spring MVC, Spring DAO,GWT,Oracle 10G,Jboss,WebService

Description :-The Application is use to sell the terminate Vehicle
through different channel like stock list, Dealer, E-Bidding and
occasion channel.

Title :-FileNet (Content Engine Developer)

Role :-Developer

Duration:-October 2011 to March 2012

Software:-Spring MVC, iBatis, Oracle 10G,Web Sphere, JMS, XMLBeans,JMS

Description :-I have migrated FileNet 3.5 to FileNet 4.5.This is a
Middleware application which is communicating to FileNet server to
insert,delete and update the document.

Title :-Siebel Interface

Role :- Developer

Duration:-May 2011 to September 2011

Software :-Spring MVC,Spring Web Flow, Spring Web Service, iBatis,
Oracle 10G,

Web Sphere, JMS,XSLT, XMLBeans, JMS

Description:-

The project description is given below:-

IAR:-This application is directly communicate to DocGen web service to
create the

Document.

FileNet 3.5:-This is used to manage the content.

Extranet:-This application is using to manage the inbound and outbound
Siebel request.

Siebel Pace:-This application is using to communicate the Pace and
provide the information on basis of search criteria.

4- Job Title :-Sr.Software Developer (java/j2ee)

Company :-C1 india,C-104 sector-2,Noida

Job Duration :-Sep 2010 to April 2011

Job Profile :-I am member of software development team in the company.

Company Profile :-c1 india is ISO 9001:2000 and SEI CMM Level 5
Company.

Projects :-

Title :-CMS

Role :-Developer

Duration:-Sep 2010 to April 2011

Software :-Spring MVC, Spring ORM, Hibernate, Sql server 2000, Apache
Tomcat 6.0	

Description:-This project is using for Manage the Tender Based Document
.This Application is part of some other application. We are importing
the data from some other Application to this application. There is a
background job which is running and automatic Import the data to this
application.

5-Job Title:-Software Developer (java/j2ee)

Company :-Excel Net Solution Pvt Ltd, South Ex-2, New Delhi

Job Duration :-Nov 2006 to August 2010

Job Profile :-I am member of software development team in the company.

Company Profile :-Excel Net Solution Pvt Ltd is a Delhi based Software
Development Company  Working in financial Domain. It is operations since
1992, with an objective of  providing Software solutions for Financial
Service Companies. Based in New Delhi & Mumbai in India, we are serving
clients across over 60 cities all over India. More Information Please
visit Company

WebSite : -http://www.investwellonline.com

Projects :-

Title:--AMC online Buy and sell

Role :-Developer

Description :-This Project are used to purchase AMC through payment
Gateway. This Software is directly connect to broker web site. Client
login through broker web site and Purchase, Sell, Switch and view
report. There are Various report like transaction statement, Portfolio
Summary, Capital gain, top Performing fund, current holding report and
lot of other report.

Software :-Struts ,Spring Jbdc template,Japser report,iText,JFree Chart
,

SQL Server 2000

Responsibilites :-Design,coding,client handling

Title :-Investonline

Role :-Developer

Description :- This project are use to purchase the mutual fund online
through Payment gateway. Client simply registers online simply fill the
online form. After register the client then this client is purchase the
mutual fund in specific bank which is mention in at a time in
registration. Also view transaction Detail, and various level of report.

Software :-Struts,Hibernate,Spring, jsp, iText, Apache Poi, jfree
Chart.

Responsibilities :-Software analysis,coding,Client handling and
deployment.

Web sites :-www.investonline.in

Title :-Investwell

Role :-Developer

Description :-This branch-based application facilitates investment in
mutual fund, private bond, government bond and portfolio of brokers and
clients. It also provides many online data such as NAV, dividend, and
fact-sheets of different schemes that helps in investment and reports in
tabular as well as graphical format.

Software :-Struts, jsp,servlet, Jasper Report, iText, Apache Poi, jfree
Chart.

Responsibilities :-Software analysis,coding,Client handling and
deployment.

Web sites :-www.investwell.in

Title :-InvestwellGold

Role :-Developer

Description :-This is a branch wise Mutual fund Software. This project
are Use for manage the Portfolio in branch wise. There are various level
of login, Branch, Broker, RM, Executive, Franchise, Sub broker,
grplead.The Feature of this project are upload file from Register like
Campus,Karvy and View portfolio like MIS Report, Portfolio Summary,
Portfolio Performance, Brokerage,Sip,FD etc as well as Latest Nav,
calculator Sip, calculator STP,SWP Calculator, Scheme Performance,AVM
Report etc.

Software :-Jsp,Servlet,java Bean,SQL server 2000,iText,Apache Poi.

Responsibilities :-Software analysis,coding,Client handling and
deployment.

