Total Experience: 



Software professional with 8 years of experience in Development and
Implementation of business applications in Web Development and
Client/Server Technologies.

Excellent Knowledge in SDLC methodologies – development of full life
cycle of a project from requirement gatherings, development, testing and
deploying the applications. 

Experience in design patterns such as Factory pattern, Business
Delegate, Service Locator, Singleton, Session Façade pattern and Data
Access Objects.

Expertise in J2EE compliant systems for deploying in OC4J, Tomcat web
server and JBOSS server. Experience in using Java IDE tools Eclipse and
My eclipse. 

Good Experience in Java/J2EE, JSP/Servlets, Struts, JSF, Hibernate,
Spring, Web Services and databases (Oracle and MySql)

Expertise in designing enterprise applications based on Object Oriented
and MVC architecture.

Good knowledge and experience in Web development like AJAX, Java Script,
JQuery, HTML5 and CSS. 

Professional Experience: 



Working as Sr. Consultant in Alliance Global Services IT India Pvt Ltd.,
from Aug 2010 to till to date.

Worked as Software Engineer in ISpace Global Services from Dec 2009 to
July 2010.

Worked as Sr. Software Programmer in PB Systems India Pvt. Ltd., from
April 2008 to Sep 2009.

Worked as Software Engineer in Frontage IT Solutions Pvt. Ltd., from
October 2006 to April 2008.

Skill Set:



Programming Languages	:	Java, J2ee, JDBC

Web & UI Technologies	:	Servlets, JSP, JSF, ADF, XML, Ajax, JQuery,
HTML5, XML, XSD and XSLT

Distributed Technologies	:	Web Services

ORM	:	Hibernate

Web/App Servers	:	Tomcat, OC4J and JBoss

Frameworks	:	Struts, Spring,  

Tools	:	JUnit, Ant, Log4j

IDE’S	:	Eclipse, My Eclipse

Database	:	MySql, Oracle 

Scripting Language	:	Java Script, Shell Script 

Operating System	:	Windows 2000/XP/7



Work Experience:



Project #1

Project	:	Web of Knowledge (WOK5)  		

Client	:	Thomson Reuters

Duration	:	Aug 10 – Till date

Position         		: 	Sr. Consultant

Team Size			: 	10

Environment		: 	Oracle, JDK1.5, XML, XSD, XSLT, Shell Script, Spring,
Web Services and Eclipse



Description:  

Thomson Reuters Web of Knowledge is a research platform that gives you
access to objective content and powerful tools to search, track, measure
and collaborate in the sciences, social sciences, arts, and humanities.
This intelligent research platform provides access to the world's
leading citation databases, including powerful cited reference
searching, the Analyse Tool, and over 100 years of comprehensive
back-file and citation data.

Responsibilities:

 Had interactions with Thomson Reuters Architects & participated in
design discussions.

 Presentations to client on proposed developments & Customer defect
Management

 Developing XML and XSL for new collection & updating existing as part
of defect fixing.

 Develop shell script for periodic updates and SQL procedure using
PL/SQL code

 Tracking and Issue resolutions.

 Designed and developed FCR (Full Cited Reference) Project 

 RAW-XML Project migrating implementation from tagged Data to Java -
XSL.

Project #2

Project	:	Everbridge  			

Client	:	Everbridge

Duration	:	Dec 09 – July 2010

Position         		: 	Software Engineer

Team Size			: 	9

Environment		: 	Struts, Spring JDBC, Spring ORM (Hibernate), Oracle,
JDK1.5, JSP, JavaScript, OC4J and Eclipse

Description:

	Everbrige is the leading global provider of mass notification solutions
to Global 2000 corporations, healthcare systems, colleges and
universities, and government agencies and municipalities. Organizations
in more than 70 countries worldwide rely on 3n for daily operational and
emergency notification needs.

The mass notification system enables one person to communicate with
tens, hundreds, or thousands of people anywhere, anytime via phone,
email, instant messaging, text messaging, fax, pager, and more

Responsibilities:

Identified the Client business requirements for the Matrix module

Use case documentation for all the features of Matrix module

Prepared clear, concise detailed system Requirements Specification (SRS)
document in accordance to Client's guidelines and standards.

Created Use Case and Sequence diagrams using UML

Involved in the creation of the configuration of Matrix using Spring

Implementation of layers (Service and DAO) of Matrix module

Written Junit test cases for the service layer of matrix

Responsible for writing JSP, Action Classes, Java Script  for Matrix
Module 

Project #3

Project	:	Avalon				

Client	:	20th Century Fox

Duration	:	April 08 – Sep 09

Position         		: 	Sr Software Programmer

Team Size			: 	7

Environment		: 	JDK, JSP, JavaScript, Ajax, JDBC (Stored Procedures),
Struts, Oracle, Toad, Web Logic and My Eclipse. 

Description:

	The Avalon is a custom developed, web-based Material Servicing
Application, which facilitates the accurate requisition of materials,
the creation and monitoring of lab orders and dispatching and tracking
of the broadcast materials that are sent and received back from
customers. Avalon will manage the data and processes needed to service
materials for Television Distribution’s International 

	The system will also support servicing to meet contractual obligations
to provide customers with the materials for products that have licensed
from Fox and maximize control of broadcast tape shipments and provide a
unified view of materials delivery worldwide

Responsibilities:

Day to day enhancements and Bug Fixing.  

Update the Knowledge Tree with updated SDS and SDDS documents.

Involved in coding using Struts framework

Performed client side validation using JavaScript and Ajax

Designed web pages using JSP with struts tags

Implemented Tiles framework for better UI and reusability.

Project #4

Project	:	U.S. Associations				

Client	:	Frontage IT Solutions Inc, USA

Duration	:	Jan 2008 to April 2008

Position         		: 	Software Engineer

Team Size			: 	4

Environment		: 	JDK, JSP, JavaScript, Hibernate, Struts, Restful WS,
MySql, JBoss and My Eclipse. 

Description:

	U.S. Associations is a web-based project. It acts as an interface
between user and Association websites. This helps in user getting
registered with the associations present in the USA. Searching criteria
is provided through which users can search associations based on the
criteria provided. Admins of various associations can search their
association members and can download the user details.

Responsibilities:

Involved in developing application flow.

Developed Presentation Layer 

Implemented Business Logic in Data Access Objects to accomplish the
Model layer

Populated collection with struts tags objects in JSP for Better
performance

Implemented Hibernate to map java classes to the database tables.

Developed POJO’s to map the tables being called using Hibernate;

Implemented Hibernate Criteria and HQL for search results and insert,
delete, update tables respectively by passing the POJO objects.

Project # 5

Project 	:	dsign’z Unlimited			

Client(s)	:	Linga Paradise Group, Hyderabad

Duration	:	Mar 2007 – Dec 2007

Position	:	Software Engineer

Team Size	:	6

Environment	:	Jdk, JSP, JDBC, Java Mail, Struts, JavaScript, MySql,
Eclipse, Windows 2000, Web Logic 

Description:

dsign’z Unlimited is commercial web project for an organization called
Linga Paradise Group. In this project it is having three modules, i.e.
Accountant Module, Cashier Module and Schemes Module. The administrator,
who plays main role in this project, maintains all three modules. He
will create another three roles for each module i.e. Accountant, Cashier
and Schemes. These three roles can have their appropriate modules home
page. The accountant can maintains purchase; inventory details and can
have search criteria to know the inventory, sales and purchase details.
The cashier can generate the recites for the customers. In schemes
module, different types of schemes provided by Linga group, Customer
group details and Customer Payment details will be maintained.

Responsibilities:      

Involved in developing forms using JSP and backend logic with DAO.

Communicate with client for requirements gathering on CR (change
requests).

Involved in developing an application modules “Accountant”,
“Cashier”.

Implemented Validator framework for user input validations

Performed code reviews, bug fixing.

Project #6

Project 	:	Resume Tracker	

Client	:	Frontage IT Solutions, India

Duration	:	Oct 2006 – Mar 2007

Position	:	Software Engineer

Team Size	:	2

Environment	:	JSP, Servlets, JDBC, JavaScript, Tomcat and Windows 2000



Description:

	The aim of Resume Tracker is to fulfill the requirements of Vendors. 
The vendor can have resumes downloaded from different portal and he will
search the best resume according to the requirement. To find the best
resume he needs to follow some search criteria so as to get the results
as quick as possible. By using this Resume Tracker, vendor can easily
find the best consultant resume. 

Recruiters who are with Vendor will save the consultant details with
Resume first in the server where the project is installed. According to
the requirement of vendors the recruiters search the consultant by
providing keywords like skills, experience, location and zip. Then
matched consultants details are short listed for further processing.  

Educational Qualification

  Master of Computer Applications. VTU University, Karnataka, 2001-2004,
secured First Class with 69.8%.          

  Bachelor of Science (Computers), OU Andhra Pradesh, 1998-2001, secured
First Class with 61.8.         

							(Keshava Reddy. T)

T. KESHAVA REDDY		     Email: kheshaav@gmail.com

	                                                     Mobile:
09959074234 

 

