From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience) the following technologies?  



Hibernate                                             -  1.5                                               

Spring                                                    -  2 Years                                               

Web Services                                       -  1 years                                                

Core Java                                              -  3 years                

Design Patterns                                   -  1 Years            

UML design                                          -   

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)                   -    maven

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools etc.]

Apache Tomcat , junit



DB- Mysql



NP:15days

		                                                                                                                             

		                                                        Ravuri Venkata reddy 

		                                                        Ph:9052017241                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

		                                                       venkatareddy.ravuri@gmail.com

		

		

Career Synopsis

	3 year of professional experience as Software Engineer in developing enterprise applications using Spring Framework based on Java & Spring Technologies.

	Strong working knowledge of end-to-end software development life cycles and processes.

	Extensive experience in coordinating development effort, responsible for development deliverables, status reporting to management, issue escalations.

	Has working experience and knowledge on UML.

	Has good knowledge on Object Oriented Programming concepts.

	Has working experience with Scrum Development Process.

	Strong working knowledge and ability to debug complex problems.

	Understanding the Business requirements, Functional specifications and analyzing the change Requests.

	Has hands-on experience in integrating Spring , Hibernate, Spring MVC, jQuery, AngularJs.

		



Career Objective & Strengths

	Aspiring to work in a challenging environment which encourages Innovation, Learning, and Creativity and provides exposures to new ideas, professional growth with my key strengths comprising as:

Strong technical skills in Core java, Servlets.

Has experience in development of web based applications using Spring Framework.

Having experience in ORM technologies like Hibernate.

Experience in working with Tomcat Web server.

Having excellent analytical, problem solving, communication and interpersonal skills.

Quick learner of new technologies & positive attitude towards the changes in the Industry.

Ability to meet deadlines and projects specifications.





            

Career Path

Software Developer (Aug 2011 – till  date),

Prokarma Softech Private Limited,

Hyderabad , India.























Projects Handled

Project #1





Title 

Insta Rounds

Role

Software Developer

Duration

Oct-2011 to Jan-2013

Team Size 

3 

Environment 

Spring , Spring WebMVC, Spring Web Services, Hibernate , Apache Tomcat , MySql 



Description :

The most comprehensive mobile and web platform for physicians to communicate with one another, share call schedules, follow their appointments, allow cross coverage and for the first time ever give physicians a mobile patient sign-out application. The product management has now come up with a new idea to build a system that will have the common data of the employee and if any system requires this common information it will going to provide it. By this way all the application can use the same data across the network eliminating employee data dependency. The system which will provide this service to the other system is called Master Data-management system (MDM)



Responsibilities: 

Involved in requirements gathering and database design.

Involved in configuring the Spring Web Service.

Involved in form validations Using Java Script and JQuery.

Ensure timely project deliveries as per project plan.



Project #2



Title

mBanking

Role

Software Developer

Duration

Feb-2013 to till date.

Team Size

3

Environment

Spring , Spring MVC,  Hibernate , Apache Tomcat , MySQL ,Angular Js.



Description :

mBanking   is a software product suite designed to serving Bank customers with access to financial services even when they are on the move through mobile apps (android, iOS Blackberry or Windows), WAP,SMS and USSD . It provides Core Banking with different modules like Setup- Admin, Admin and Self-Care. In Setup-Admin we creates Institutions and its Admins . In Admin level we are creating Institution users, Customers, Agencies, Agents, IAgents, Merchants ,Corporates and Branch Teller along with their Admins. Self Care is used as login for above users.

,



Responsibilities: 

Implemented the server side of the contract using Spring Webservices and JaxB.

Designed and Developed the Façade Layer for the Service Request Processors.  

Developed the Remote Procedure Calls using HTTP Invoker for Inter component communication.

Documented the Project and gave KT Sessions to rest of the development team.

Responsible for the maintenance of the project  till date









			

Qualification

Institution/Board

Year of Passing

MCA

Bsc

Nalanda Institute of Engineering and Technology,  Guntur.

Rvvn Colleage, Acharya Nagarjuna University , Guntur.

2011

                   2008

12th

T.G.L PolyTechnic Government College /Board of Technical Education

2006

10th

N.M.M.High School /Board of Secondary Education

2003



	Technical Skills





		Java Technologies

		Java, Servlets,, Web Services.

		Frameworks

		Spring, Hibernate

		Tools

		Maven, SVN, Spring Source Tool

		Database

		MySQL

		Web/Application Server

		Apache Tomcat

		Operating System

		Ubuntu 

		Markup Language

		XML, HTML

		Scripting Language                     

		JavaScript, Jquery, angularJs.

		

		

		





Personal Detail



Address

Near Mehadipatnam, Hyderabad-500028

Date Of Birth

06/06/88

Marital Status

Single 

Languages Known

English  and Telugu

Nationality

Indian 









		

		

























Structured Testing And Reporting Tool



		

		

Structured Testing And Reporting Tool



























Structured Testing And Reporting Tool