6.3/30%hike/60days

Arun Kumar Mahanty

E-mail: arunmahanty408@gmail.com

Contact:  +91-8970707252

Professional Summary:

Working as Senior Software Engineer with 3+ years of progressive
Experience in the field of Java and J2EE.

Currently working in Tavant Technologies India Pvt Ltd. as a Developer
for Nacco-Fleet project with client Nacco.

Got Pat on the Back award in iGATE for delivering a critical module in
less time with good quality.

Capability to explore, learn and understand newer business domains and
technology.

Has good experience on manufacturing, retail sectors.

Have good experience in Software Development Life Cycle entailing
Requirement analysis, design, development, testing and trouble shooting.

Expertise and practical experience in developing Web Based Applications,
Coding & Unit Testing.

Worked on Quality Center Management and Test Notes for defect status
tracking.

Have good knowledge on Svn Repository for code check in, update and
synchronization with Eclipse id.

Has actively participated in self code review, peer review to help the
team, written proper documentation wherever needed.

Followed the coding standards as per client check list to improve the
code quality.

Objective:

To pursue a challenging career in IT field, which offers excellent
opportunities for learning and consistent growth, which provides a
challenging environment for target achievements through professional
excellence, dedication and commitment. 

Technical Skills:

Languages                                    :  Core Java, JDBC,
Servlets, XML, Apache Wicket, Hibernate, JPA,
Spring,Servlet’s,Jsp,Angular Js,Json

DESIGN                                          : Star UML and Agro UML

RDBMS                                  : ORACLE, DB2

    APPLICATION/WEB SERVERS   : JBOSS  6.x, Apache Tomcat 5.0

    Operating System	                :  Windows

    Tools                                              :  Eclipse IDE,
SVN, MAVEN, JRebel, Find Bug, PMD Check Style, Log 4j

Academic Qualification:

Course		                                  Institution                   
                           %Marks

B.Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering	

JNTU KAKINADA	

67.8

Higher Secondary Examination Certificate	Board of Secondary Education,
Andhra Pradesh	

91.5

Secondary School Certificate	School of Secondary Education, Andhra
Pradesh	83.3



Project Details:

NACCO-FLEET  for Nacco

Summary: 

Fleet Management is a reduction of materials handling costs resulting in
increased efficiency. This requires a planned replacement program which
optimizes the economic life of the equipment. 

              The over all goal is to reduce cost.   

               However, each customers definition of, and expectation
from, fleet management is unique.

Responsibilities and Contributions:

Analysing the requirements.

Creation of tables.

Code Development.

Writing unit test cases.              	

Fixing Defects.

Technical Skills		: Java, spring, Hibernate, JPA, Angular JS, Json,jsp

Employer		: Tavant Technologies India Pvt Ltd.

Duration		: Jan 2014 to till Date

Information Hub for Honda

Summary: 

Infohub manages two applications Seihan and MDM where configuration is
relatively simple and message traffic is low.

The main goal of the project is to have a proper application to support
both message follow up and routing configuration. It only acts as the
User Interface allowing for easy maintenance of the message routing and
configuration parameters and also as the means to track messages flowing
through the infohub and to monitor and remediate message processing
failures. Its concern is to specify how message routing configuration
can be specified and maintained and messages flowing through infohub can
be monitored.

Responsibilities and Contributions:

Requirement analysis

Developing LLDs and HLDs. 

Developing Prototypes 

Development of Modules after signing off the prototypes.

Unit testing, deployment testing and Integration Testing 

Technical Skills		: Java, J2EE- Spring, Hibernate, Java Script, Jquery

Employer		: iGATE Global Solutions  Private  limited, Bangalore

Duration		: May 2013- Dec 2013

PPM (Price Policy Management) for Honda

Summary: 

Price Policy Management defines price policy for each part of Honda
Cars, bikes and equipment. Each price which is not set manually needs to
be related to a given policy defined in the system. Each defined price
policy in the system need to be in translation of a business price
policy defined and set up by the pricing team. Two policies will be
defined: initial price policies and price review policies. Along with
defining policies, system also keeps information about competitors to
compare the prices offered by them and changes the prices according to
the market. Based on the sales for a particular year policies are
revised. Pricing team sets prices for the parts. Management can accept
or reject the prices. Policy will be applicable from the day management
accept the policy defined for the part. Even management can set new
policies.

Responsibilities and Contributions:

Requirement gathering.

Developing LLDs and HLDs. 

Developing Prototypes and presenting the same to the Clients.

Development of Modules after signing off the prototypes.

Unit testing, deployment testing and Integration Testing and customer
demo

Technical Skills		: Java, J2EE- Spring, Wickets,
JPA,HTML,CSS,JavaScript,Jquery

Employer		: iGATE Global Solutions pvt ltd, Bangalore

Duration		: June 2012 – Apr 2013

CPS (Common Planning System) for Honda

Summary: 

CPS – Common Planning System is a Supply Chain management that enables
Honda Europe to manage stock across Honda organizations and
distributors.

The stock is currently owned and managed by individual countries
organizations. Each country runs its own stock calculation process which
establishes the availability of a product by simulating the effect that
a planned production volume and a forecasted sales plan have on future
stock levels. Without a Common System across countries, each stock
calculation process is developed independently as an excel document,
making it difficult to consolidate and analyze demand date in meaningful
manner.

The move to Common Stock will require changes to the current stock
calculation process, accountabilities and most importantly the
underpinning common planning system

Responsibilities and Contributions:

Played an active role as an Application Developer. 

Analyzing and understanding the requirements 

Developed Prototype 

Preparation and updating of design documents

Involved in preparation of Unit test cases.

Involved in unit testing.

Technical Skills		: Java, J2EE- Spring, Hibernate, JPA, JMS , Apache
Wicket, JPA, Jquery, Java Script

Employer		: iGATE Global Solutions private limited, Bangalore

Duration		: Mar 2011 – May 2012

Personal Skills:

Excellent written and oral communication, energetic  team player and
organizer 

Focused and unambiguous in presentations , documenting and reviews

Personal Details:

Name: Arun Kumar Mahanty

DOB: 07/06/1989

Sex: Male

Marital Status: Single

Contact Number: 8970707252

E-mail:arunmahanty408.@gmail.com

Language Known: English, Hindi, Oriya, Telugu

	

I hereby declare that information stated above is true to best of my
knowledge and belief.

Place: Bangalore

Date: 								(Arun Kumar Mahanty)

  PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT  1 

