From last how many  years, the candidate has been using (experience)
the following technologies?  

Hibernate                           
                 -  1
year                                  
             

Spring                  
                                 - 5 year&
current

Web
Services                                
       -  REST – 4
ears                                  
              

Core
Java                                  
            -  6 years                

Design
Patterns                                
   -  3 years            

UML
design                                 
         -   2.5 Years

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)                   -   
Maven

Others if any, specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools
etc.]

Sonar, PMD,J unit, cucmber, weblogic, websphere,sql database

Ok for bitchemy

Shireesh Adla

Hyderabad / + (91)9246081931 /   HYPERLINK
"mailto:ashireesh43@gmail.com"  ashireesh43@gmail.com 

Profile Summary

Around 6 years of Application Development using Java, J2EE Technologies.

Experience in all aspects including Requirements Analysis, Design,
Implementation, 

     Integration and Deployment of Java Applications using Java and J2EE
technologies.

Good exposure in design and implementation of NOSQL database. (Neo4j)

Good knowledge of Spring, Hibernate, Web Services, XML, XSL and XML
parsers.

Extensively adopted Agile Software Development process.

Good Exposure to Aspect Oriented Programming.

Good communication and analytical skills along with a can do attitude.

Technical Expertise

Languages	Java, J2EE, Aspect Oriented Programming (AOP). 

Query Languages	SQL, PL/SQL, Cypher, Gremlin.

Technologies	JSP, Velocity, Servlets, JDBC, Oracle E-Business Suite
(PIM).

SOA	RESTful Web services, JAX-RS, Xml , Json

Frameworks	Struts, Spring, Hibernate, Jersey, aspectj.

Application Servers	Weblogic, Apache Tomcat, Jetty, Jboss.

Java Tools	Java Application Profiling (TPTP), Jmeter, Cobertura.

XML Parsers	XML, JAXB, Digester.

JSON Libraries	Gson, Jackson

Test Frameworks	Junit, TetNG, Jmock, Mocito, FEST, REST Assured,
Cucumber

Build Tools	Ant, Maven.

Continuous Integration Servers	Jenkins/Hudson, Cruise Control. Git

Code Quality Tools	PMD, FindBugs, CheckStyle, Sonar, Bugzilla.

Rule Engine	Drools

Methodologies	Agile Software Development, TDD, BDD, Waterfall Model

Relational Database	Oracle10g/9i, Oracle RAC

NOSQL Database	Neo4j (Graph Database)



Professional Experience

Working as Senior Software Engineer with ProKarma Softech Ltd from Sept
2010 to Till Date

Worked as Software Engineer with Virtusa India Pvt Ltd from October 2007
to Sept 2010

Achievements & Certifications

Successfully adopted NOSQL database solution.

Got client appreciation for providing solution for Spring RAC failover
feature.

Working under clients lead architect projects.

Achieved Outstanding Contribution Award for the project.

Developed excellent relations with the client and received several
complimentary emails for work.

Given Knowledge Talk on Aspect Oriented Programming, TPTP.

Given Internal sessions on NoSql Database (Neo4j).

Academics

Master of Science Program (Advanced Software Technology, Java),
International Institute of Information Technology (IIIT Pune) 2008

B.Tech (Computer Science Engineering), JNTU, Scient Institute of
Information Technology, Ibrahimpatnam.2006.

Projects @ ProKarma

Project 1 : StarMap

Client: Union Pacific Railways, US (April’2011 to Till Date)

Business Description: 

StarMap: Deployment dependency architecture for analyzing overall
architectural level dependencies.

Acts as a single point of federated visual information about
dependencies affecting all project dependencies. 

Star Map Architecture project aims at delivering the complete vision of
the architectural level dependencies throughout the software ecosystem. 

A better way to manage dependencies, assess impact and transfer
knowledge.

Roles & Responsibilities:

Closely worked with the client for identifying the most detailed
requirements possible and shared new ideas and features.

Involved in analyzing and designing the StarMap component : worked on
creating various design artifacts.(ER Diagram, Sequence Diagrams, DFD)

Worked independently with the client through the major part of the
project, providing POC for using new technologies. (Neo4j)

Provided technical and business support for the team.

Worked independently with the client by covering roles as BA, Developer
and QA.

Prepared detailed configuration document for the user.

Environment: Java, Flex, Neo4j, JAX-RS, Jersey, XML, JAXB, Json.
Jackson, Maven

Project 2 : Spring-Oracle RAC Component

Client: Union Pacific Railways, US (Sept’2010 to April’2011)

Business Description: Oracle RAC failover capability with Spring.

RAC Fast Connection Failover – Retry and Replay Transactions:

The RAC “Fast Connection Failover” provides the ability to have a
Spring application transparently failover when a database node fails.
This allows the Spring applications to automatically Retry connection
and Replay the failed Transactions on an active node.

Roles & Responsibilities:

Provided configurable, loosely coupled solution for Spring-Oracle RAC
transaction failover component.

Worked independently to propose the new solution.

 Involved in end to end design and implementation of the component.

Worked on low level Spring implementation details for providing the
custom namespace support.

Studied and documented the detailed usage and analyses of Oracle RAC
features.

Prepared detailed configuration document and backoff steps for the user.

Provided configuration support to the user in using the component.

Environment: Oracle RAC, Spring: Batch, Transactions, AOP, Custom tags.

Projects @ Virtusa

Project 3 : STeAM (Solution for Thomson ecommerce & Access Management

Client: Thomson Reuters, US (Mar’2009 to Sept’2010)

Environment: Java 1.5, Maven, XML, TPTP, AOP, Digester, Drools,
Velocity, AOP, Oracle 9i

Project 4 : MDM CPE Automation

Client: British Telecom, UK (July’2008 to Feb’2009)

Environment: Oracle PIM (E-Business Suite), Oracle Workflow, Java,
PL/SQL

Project 5 : BTGS MDM Reuters

Client: British Telecom, UK (Oct’2007 to June’2008)

Environment: Struts, JSP, JUnit, JDepend, Ant, XML, Web Logic, Oracle 9i

Personal Details

Date of Birth                     	:  Jan 23, 1983

Sex                                 	:  Male

Address For Communication : 8-1-284/OU/218, OU Colony, Shaikpet,
Hyderabad. AP

DECLARATION

I hereby declare that the information furnished above is true and
correct to the best of my knowledge and belief.

								      (SHIREESH ADLA)

