Hibernate	 2yrs

Spring	 2yrs

Web Services	 1yr

Core Java	 3.10yrs

Design Patterns	 2yrs

UML design	 3.10yrs

Build Tools (Maven/Ant)	 3.10yrs

Others if any specify [Application Servers, IDE, Code Quality Tools
etc.]

Apache Tomcat 6.0/ Web Sphere Application Server

 	 Apache,Tomcat=3.10yrs



Niranjan Syamala                                                        
        

Email:  	niranjan.syamala@gmail.com	

Mobile:   (+91) 9949959967	                                             
                       			 

Objective:  To Perceive a challenging carrier though which I can excel
my organization and myself.

Professional Summary:

I have 3.10 years of professional experience in Java Development

Currently working as Software Developer at Oracle India Pvt. Ltd

Successful hands on experience in project implementation in the TELECOM
domain and E-Commerce domain.

Sound knowledge in Core Java, IBM Rational Clear case, HTML, JSP, Java
Script and 

Spring, Hibernate and REST framework.

Worked as a Java Developer in Broadband OSS applications at TCS in
Planning, Coordinating and Implementing Applications across a range of
systems and environments using the Waterfall model and agile software
Methodologies.

Worked as lead player in project while using IBM Rational Clear-case
with JAVA.

Worked as a Configuration Manager and actively involved in Telecom TMF
814 Product delivery related activities. 

Educational Qualifications

Master of Technology in V.L.S.I (2009-2011) with an aggregate of 82% 

B.Tech (Electronics) (2004-2008) with an aggregate of 67%

Board of Intermediate Education (2002-2004) with an aggregate of 83.6%

Secondary School Of Education (2002) with an aggregate of 83.5%

Technical  Skils:

Core Java

Servlets and JSPs 

SQL

HTML

JavaScript

Software Tools:

IBM Rational Clear case Version Control

Perforce

Databases: 

Objectivity 10.2

SQL

Oracle

Operating Systems: 

Windows

HP – Itanium

SUSE - Linux

Technology:

         Below is a list of important IDE, Tools and languages that I
have worked with.

         IDE	              Tools	               Language

Eclipse, IntelliJ	IBM Rational Clearcase Version Control, Perforce

	Java





Career Profile:

Dates	                Organization	Designation

March 2014 – till date	Oracle India Pvt Ltd	Software Developer

Jan 30th, 2012 – March 2014	                          TCS	Assistant
Systems Engineer



Project 2:

Product Name	Oracle Commerce Suite

Period			March 2014 to till date

Role			Software Developer

Tech/Tools		Java/J2EE, Spring, Hibernate, MsSql

Description		Oracle Commerce enables selling experiences that drive
clicks and conversions for the world’s biggest and best brands. The
solution enables businesses selling online to deliver a consistent,
relevant, and personalized cross-channel buying experience for buyers.

The Oracle Commerce Solution includes the Oracle Commerce Platform and
Oracle Commerce Merchandising capabilities for creating and defining the
sites and content that drives customer experiences. These capabilities
include creating and managing multi-site and multichannel
infrastructures, management of the product catalog, web content
creation, collection of session data, pricing and promotions, processing
of transactions, management of customer profiles and segments, and the
creation of personalization strategies.  

Responsibility    1)	Writing the technical specification document as per
the requirements..

		       2)	Implementation of the designed solutions.

		.      3)	Writing up the unit test cases.

		       4)	Bug Fixing and providing assistance to the customers.

		       5)	Being an agile team member actively participating in sprint
activities.

Project 1:

Product Name	TMF (Tele Management Forum)

Customer		Ericsson Telecom

Period			Jan, 2012  to March 2014

Role			Team Member

Tech/Tools		Core Java, Eclipse and IBM Rational Cleasecase Version
Control

Description		TMF it is a product based core software for telecom
operators.

TMF uses MTNM standards supported by CISCO, Huawei and many more Telecom
		Giants.	All the Telecom groups should fallow these MTNM standards to
implement 		their own product 

Development		

TMF is operated as the North bound interface while managing the Network
elements like EMS and NMS. TMF is used as the operator standing on top
of the network through which we can send the various data signals from
one EMS to other EMS which is managed by one single NMS. TMF is having
various development sub applications. The main Work we put in is WSON
Management this management deals with how a network will route the data
depending on the data rates for a particular end user.

For Example 

Customer A wants 5 MBPS speed on Weekdays and 10 MBPS on Weekends.

Customer B wants 10 MBPS speed on Weekdays and 5 MBPS on Weekends.

Then we should be in a position to provide them such facilities of data
rates with their requirement. We have developed our application in TMF
such away which should provide the flexibility of choosing the data
rates and data plans. This leads to optimizing the Bandwidth of the
optical cables used in communication.

Responsibility    1)	Requirement Analysis, Development, Regression
testing.

		.     2)	Working with each team member in case of technical or
functional issues in each 			phase of task execution. Frequent
Interaction with the on-site team for requirement 			understanding

Achievement Summary: 

1.	I was awarded with “Star of the Month” TCS (2013) because of the
commitment showed.

2.	Due to my ability to handle multiple works I have been requested to
support IBM Rational Clear case version control critical issues of
another project in Ericsson account.

Personal Details: 

Date of Birth	15/04/1987	

Nationality	Indian

Sex	Male

Marital status	Married

Current Address and phone no	Flat No. 304, Lakshmi Priya Colony,
Manikonda

Date of joining	Jan 2012

Designation	Software Developer



      I hereby declare that all the information mentioned above is true
to the best of my knowledge

                                                                        
                                                    (Niranjan Syamala)

Page   PAGE  1  of   NUMPAGES \*Arabic  4 

