My current CTC is 17 LPA.  and I am expecting 25 LPA. 

My notice period is 1 month.

Tarun Agrawal

#1308 AGATE My Home Jewel, Madinaguda, Hyderabad 500549

Contact: +91-9985783087; E-Mail: mail2tarunagrawal@gmail.com; DOB: 11th
August, 1984

PRINCIPAL SOFTWARE ENGINEER 

PROFILE

Competent and result oriented professional offering 7.5 years of
sterling experience in product development currently serving as
Principal Software Engineer with PegaSystems Worldwide Pvt Ltd, India.

Certified Scrum Master and currently playing role of the same in the
team.

Excellent exposure in designing and implementing multi-threading
solutions.

Excellent exposure in designing and implementing security features such
as URL tempering, CSRF, Cross Site Scripting etc. 

Excellent exposure in multi tenancy development and analysis.  

Excellent Exposure in designing and implementing caches for efficient
processing.

Excellent Exposure on performance analysis and finding bottlenecks.  

Exposure on distributed technology such as Hazelcast, EHCache etc.

Received Employee Achievement Award for outstanding contribution for
PRPC product.

Received Pega Innovation Award for contributing toward new product ideas
and build POC for the same.

 Received coveted R.I.S.E (Reorganization of Individual Superior Effort)
award for tremendous effort and contribution in WDA (Wholesale Demand
Accounting) project.

 Received Best Performance award for extraordinary performance in
Technical Training Program. 

Received SPOT award for dedication and contribution for Payments
Director Monitoring Tool.

 Sun certified Java programmer with 95%.

 A team player with excellent interpersonal and communication skills
with an ability to work under high pressure deadlines.

TECHNICAL SKILLS

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

Pegasystems Worldwide Pvt Ltd                                           
                           		since Sept ‘2011

	

Pegasystems offers PRPC platform and I have worked various areas of PRPC
it includes Security, Performance and Multi tenancy. Following are some
highlights.  

Worked with on improving performance analysis of existing product
feature and removing bottlenecks. 

Designed and implemented URL tempering security feature by providing
white listing of parameters. 

Designed and implemented CSRF mitigation. 

Designed and implemented PRPC multi-threading processing. 

Re-design existing product engine caches to support multi-tenancy. 

Designed and implemented cluster wide locking utility using Hazelcast. 

HSBC Technology Services                                                
                          			since June ‘2007

	

              Senior Software Engineer

            

             	Project Exposures

IBM Payments Directors: The IBM Payments Director (IPD) suite
facilitates the real-time, transaction-based processing of payments with
all the services to support the presentment and settlement cycle. This
is underpinned by a robust business rules engine that enables a rapid
response to any business continuity threat to the settlement process and
supports real-time integration with fraud applications. 

HSBC North America has customized IPD for its requirements and deployed
it to demise existing Check Processing Control System.

Project Title	IPD(IBM Payments Director)

Client	HSBC BANK, North America

Technology	Java, Linux, Mainframe, XML

Role		Customization and enhancement.

Team Size	11 



	Responsibility	Customization of the product to meet HSBC specific
needs.

Unit testing.

Design and developed monitoring tool for effective monitoring of the
system.

Design and developed interfaces to communicate with other check
processing and fraud systems.





Project Title	Remote Desktop Capture (RDC)

Client	HSBC BANK, North America	

Technology	Java, Dot Net, Windows Server

Role	Requirement gathering and analysis, Development, Testing and
Quality Management.

Team Size	4

Description	Remote Desktop Capture (RDC) product allows retail and
corporate customers to send check images and supporting data
electronically to HSBC Bank. 



Responsibility	Design

Coding.

Unit Testing 

Preparing environment for unit-testing. 

Preparing Test plan 

Run the IST files and verify the results



Project Title	Deposit Servicing System (DSV)

Client	HSBC BANK, North America.

Technology	Java, Mainframe, MQ series.

Role	Requirement gathering and analysis, Development, Testing and
Quality Management.

Team Size	3

Description	The Deposits Servicing System (DSV) supports the creation
and maintenance of HSBC Global Payments and Cash Management’s
wholesale demand deposit account portfolio on the Wholesale Demand
Deposit System (WDA).  As such, DSV provides Commercial customer setup,
Account opening, maintenance and servicing, Globalization (e.g.,
grouping of accounts for pricing, interest, limits and reserves),
Transfer relationships (e.g., sweep & concentration), Notional Netting
relationships, Back value transaction entry and 

General inquiry.



Responsibility	Requirement gathering. Developed requirement
understanding document and prototype to capture all functional
requirements.

Developed UML diagrams to capture application’s high and low level
design.

Code development.

Developed cache service to maintain less frequently data at server and
also developed a scheduler program which invokes scheduled cache
services at configured time.

Complete end to testing with Mainframe programs. 

Software Configuration Management.



Project Title	Client Servicing System (CSV)

Client	HSBC BANK, North America.

Technology	Java, Mainframe, MQ.

Role	Requirement gathering and analysis, Development, Testing and
Quality Management.

Team Size	3

Description	The Client Servicing System (CSV), web based application, is
a front end agent to the Deposits Servicing System (DSV) which is used
by HSBC Global Payments and Cash Management to create and maintain WDA
accounts on the Wholesale Demand Deposit System (WDA). As such, CSV
provides the necessary work flow management, input forms and approval
methods automating the set up of new customers and accounts onto WDA.



Responsibility	Requirement gathering. Developed prototype to capture all
functional requirement.

Developed UML diagrams to capture application’s high and low level
design.

Code development.

Developed custom tag library to reduce redundancy and improve
productivity.

Complete end to testing with Mainframe program. 

Software Configuration Management.



Project Title	Management Information Reporting System (MIR)

Client	HSBC BANK, North America.

Technology	Java

Role	Requirement Development, Testing and Quality Management.

Team Size	3

Description	Management Information Reporting System is integrated WDA
product to generate

reports for business and customers.



Responsibility	Code development.

Preparing Test plan 

Reviewing peer codes and UTP’s

EDUCATIONAL AND PROFESSIONAL CREDENTIALS

                                              Bachelor of Engineering
(Computer Science) 2007 with 72%

                                                             Devi Ahilya
Vishvidhalaya, Indore

XIIth – 2002 with 84%

Govt Boys. H.S.S., MP Board

Xth – 2000 with 68%

Sharda Vidya Niketan, MP Board

